亨氏香楠",
3.**Aidia henryi** (E. Pritzel) T. Yamazaki J. Jap. Bot. 45: 338. 1970.",

## Description
Shrubs or trees, 2-15 m tall; branches somewhat flattened to subterete, glabrous. Petiole 5-18 mm, glabrous; leaf blade drying leathery or papery, elliptic-oblong, oblong-lanceolate, or narrowly elliptic, 9-21.5 × 1.5-8 cm, both surfaces glabrous, base cuneate to obtuse, apex acute to acuminate; secondary veins 5-10 pairs, in abaxial axils usually with foveolate and/or pilosulous domatia; stipules caducous or sometimes persisting on distalmost nodes, lanceolate to narrowly triangular, 6-10 mm, glabrous, apex long acuminate. Inflorescences cymose, 1-7 × 1-10 cm, puberulent, strigillose, or glabrous, with axes dichasial or sometimes congested; peduncle 2-10 mm; bracts lanceolate to triangular or ovate, 0.5-2 mm, obtuse to acute; pedicels 0.5-7 mm. Calyx glabrous to strigillose; ovary portion obconic to cylindrical or narrowly ellipsoid, 1-1.5 mm; limb with tubular portion 1-2.5 mm; lobes 4, triangular to narrowly triangular or lanceolate, 0.5-1.5 mm. Corolla yellow, white, or sometimes red, glabrous outside; tube 3-4 mm; lobes 4, narrowly spatulate-oblong, 5-8 mm, acute to obtuse or rounded. Berry 5-6 mm in diam.; seeds ca. 2 mm. Fl. Mar-Jun, fr. May-Feb.
  "Reference": "As noted above, this species is here circumscribed to generally comprise the plants treated by W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(1): 354. 1999) as *Aidia cochinchinensis*. The reports of *A. cochinchinensis* (as *Randia cochinchinensis*) from Zhejiang by Qiu and Zhong (Fl. Zhejiang 6: 103. 1986) and from Fujian (Fl. Fujian. 5: 165. 1993) are here treated as reports of *A. henryi*.As noted above, this species is here circumscribed to generally comprise the plants treated by W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(1): 354. 1999) as *Aidia cochinchinensis*. The reports of *A. cochinchinensis* (as *Randia cochinchinensis*) from Zhejiang by Qiu and Zhong (Fl. Zhejiang 6: 103. 1986) and from Fujian (Fl. Fujian. 5: 165. 1993) are here treated as reports of *A. henryi*.
  "Statistics": "Thickets or forests at streamsides, on hills, or on mountain slopes; below 100-2400 m. Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hainan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Sichuan, Taiwan, Yunnan, Zhejiang [Japan, Thailand, Vietnam].
  "Synonym": "*Randia henryi* E. Pritzel, Bot. Jahrb. Syst. 29: 581. 1901; *Aidia merrillii* (Chun) Tirvengadum; *R. acutidens* Hemsley &amp; E. H. Wilson; *R. caudatifolia* Merrill (1923), not Pitard (1923); *R. merrillii* Chun.
