谢君蘑芋",
15.**Amorphophallus xiei** H. Li & Z. L. Dao Novon. 16: 240. 2006.",

## Description
Tuber dark brown outside, pink inside, depressed globose, 7-8 cm high, ca. 16 cm in diam., root scars not swollen, without offset development. Leaf solitary; petiole pink at base, green to deep green apically, sometimes with some inconspicuous, paler, rhombic, linear, or irregular spots with a dark center or with scattered very small, dark green dots, 60-80 cm, glabrous; leaf blade 60-120 cm in diam.; leaflets pale abaxially, green adaxially, elliptic, to ca. 23 × 8 cm, apex acuminate; main branching points in leaf blade with an epiphyllar bulbil, these brown, depressed globose to subglobose, to 3 cm in diam. Inflorescence solitary; peduncle colored as petiole, to 18 × 1.3-1.5 cm. Spathe almost erect, outside very pale whitish pinkish with scattered punctiform dark brown dots, with purple base, and margin sometimes reddish, inside dark pink, campanulate, ca. 18 × 10 cm, base minutely verruculose. Spadix sessile, longer than spathe, 23-24 cm; flowers unisexual, naked; female zone cylindric, 4-4.5 × 1.5-2 cm, flowers congested; ovary pink to reddish pink, obconic, ca. 3 mm high, ca. 2 mm in diam., 1-loculed; style almost absent; stigma nearly sessile, yellow, strongly depressed, disciform, ca. 0.5 mm high, ca. 3 mm in diam., wider than ovary, slightly 5- or 6-lobed to irregularly 8-lobed; male zone cylindric or slightly obconic, 6.5-7 × 2.6-3.7 cm; male flower consisting of 4 or 5 stamens; stamens almost entirely free, ca. 2 × 1.5 mm; filaments ca. 1 mm; anthers off-white with a pinkish apex, truncate, ca. 1 mm; pores apical, slightly elongate; appendix off-white or pale pink, fusiform-conic, laterally compressed in larger individuals, ca. 11 × 5 cm, smooth. Fruit red when mature, ovoid, ca. 1.5 cm × 5 mm. Fl. Apr, fr. May-Nov.
  "Reference": "This species is cultivated as a food crop in the valleys of the Nanwan and Husa rivers of the Irrawaddy system.This species is cultivated as a food crop in the valleys of the Nanwan and Husa rivers of the Irrawaddy system.
  "Statistics": "● Forest margins, tropical thickets; 900-1100 m. W Yunnan (Longchuan).
