西疆铁角蕨",
75.**Asplenium kukkonenii** Viane & Reichstein Pterid. New Millennium. 81. 2003.",

> *Asplenium kukkonenii* is most similar to *A. tenuicaule* and *A. varians*. Crossing experiments and micromorphology have shown that *A. tenuicaule* is one of its ancestors (Viane &amp; Reichstein, Pterid. New Millennium, 73-105. 2003). The second ancestor of *A. kukkonenii* is still unknown. The fact that *A. kukkonenii* and *A. varians* share a genome explains why these taxa are difficult to differentiate from each other. The lamina of *A. kukkonenii* is usually slightly narrower and more acuminate (occasionally even caudate) at the apex. The mean length of the rhizome scales is usually less than 3.5 mm in *A. kukkonenii* and more than 3.5 mm in *A. varians*. Reliable differentiation is also possible by examination of epidermal cells, which are thickened or pseudomamillate in their sinuses in *A. kukkonenii*, but not so in *A. varians*. In herbaria, *A. kukkonenii* is often identified as *A. varians* or as *A. fontanum* and was included in *A. varians* by, e.g., Beddome (Handb. Ferns Brit. India, 158. 1883), Hope (J. Bombay Nat. Hist. Soc. 13: 667. 1901), Stewart (Biologia 3: 133-164. 1957), Stewart in Nasir &amp; Ali (Fl. W. Pakistan, 18. 1972), Nakaike and Malik Cryptog. Fl. Pakistan) 1: 270. 1992; Cryptog. Fl. Pakistan 2: 332. 1993), and G. F. Zhang (Fl. Yunnan. 20: 673. 2006).

## Description
Plants (3.5-)6-15(-25) cm tall. Rhizome erect, short, apex scaly; scales brown to dark brown, triangular to narrowly triangular, (2-)2.2-3.5(-4.5) × 0.4-0.7 mm, fimbriate or entire. Fronds caespitose; stipe green (small fronds) but base dark brown, color occasionally extending into rachis, (1-)2-6(-9) cm, with small dark brown, often linear scales and uniseriate hairs, subglabrous when old, adaxially sulcate; lamina narrowly oblong to ovate, (2.3-)5-10(-20) × (0.7-)1-2.5(-4) cm, base truncate-cuneate, bipinnate at base, pinnate-pinnatisect(-pinnatifid) in upper part, apex acute-acuminate to caudate; pinnae 7-13 pairs, alternate or opposite, stalk ca. 1 mm, lower pinnae slightly reduced, lowest pair 0.8-1.8 cm from next pair, more distal pinnae closer but usually not overlapping, median and upper pinnae often at an angle of 45°-75° to rachis, largest pinnae triangular-ovate, 10-20 × 5-10(-12) mm, base asymmetrical, acroscopic side truncate, basiscopic side cuneate, basal acroscopic pinnule largest, often shortly (ca. 0.5 mm) stipitate and nearly parallel to rachis, fan-shaped or ovate to triangular-ovate, margin serrate to crenate with acute to mucronate teeth, apex obtuse; basiscopic pinnules often adnate and directed outward, almost perpendicular to rachis. Fronds herbaceous, green to gray-green or brown when dried, rachis green or occasionally with castaneous base (abaxially), adaxially sulcate, with small, dark brown, linear scales, lamina with 3- or 4-celled uniseriate gland-tipped hairs, epidermis cells with sinuous pseudomamillate anticlinal walls, average guard cell length 45-50 µm. Sori 1-3(or 4) per pinnule, median on acroscopic veinlets, often confluent at maturity, oval-linear, 1.4-2.4(-3) mm; indusia whitish to pale brown, oval-linear, membranous, entire to repand, opening toward major veins or costa. Spores with lophate (costate-cristate) perispore, average exospore length 32-36 µm. Plants sexual, allotetraploid: 2*n* = 144.

> On rocks in forests; 2100-3300 m. Xizang, Yunnan [India, Nepal, Pakistan].
