四倍体铁角蕨",
26.**Asplenium quadrivalens** (D. E. Meyer) Landolt Fl. Indicativa. 268. 2010.",

> Tetraploid *Asplenium quadrivalens* has a broader ecological amplitude, i.e., it is not limited to non-calcareous substrates and has a wider range than *A. trichomanes*.*“Asplenium lovisii”* (Rothmaler, Wiss. Z. Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-Univ. Greifswald, Math.-Naturwiss. Reihe 14(1/2): 77. 1965) belongs here but was not validly published because no type was indicated (*Melbourne Code*, Art. 40.1); its “type” was a cultivated plant and not a specimen as required by Art. 8.4. If the proposal to conserve the name *A. trichomanes* with a conserved type, based on a diploid plant according to its traditional (“2*x*“) use and in compliance with Art. 57.1, is not accepted then the name for the current tetraploid species will have to change to *A. trichomanes*.*Asplenium ×heufleri* Reichardt (the tetraploid sterile hybrid between *A. quadrivalens* and *A. septentrionale*) was recently found in Xinjiang. The authors have not seen any specimens of *A. ×alternifolium* Wulfen (the triploid sterile hybrid between *A. trichomanes* and *A. septentrionale*).

## Description
Plants 10-30 cm tall. Rhizome erect, short, scaly; scales narrowly triangular, 3.5(-5) × ca. 0.5 mm, with opaque dark brown to black central stripe and paler narrow clathrate borders, entire. Fronds caespitose; stipe shiny castaneous or dark red-brown to black, 2-8 cm, base scaly, upward subglabrous, abaxially semiterete but adaxially sulcate, with brown, membranous and subentire narrow wings, texture papery, stipe and rachis usually not very long persistent after shedding of pinnae; lamina linear, 10-25 × 0.9-1.6 cm, base slightly reduced, 1-pinnate, apex acute and 2-5 mm wide; pinnae 20-30 pairs, usually at right angles to rachis, sessile, middle pinnae oblong to rectangular, 4-6(-12) × 2-4(-5) mm, base asymmetrical, truncate, acroscopic side occasionally auriculate, margin crenate, apex obtuse; lower pinnae gradually reduced, flabellate or triangular. Veins pinnate, costa obscure, veins oblique, simple or up to 2-forked, basal acroscopic vein usually 2-forked. Fronds papery, green or brown when dry, stomatal guard cells 41-48 µm; rachis castaneous, shiny, subglabrous, abaxially terete, adaxially grooved and with a relatively high lateral brown membranous wing. Sori 4-8 per pinna, oval to linear, 1-3.5 mm, usually on acroscopic vein; indusium white or brown after drying, oval to linear, membranous, free margin repand to entire, opening toward costa, persistent. Spores with lophate (costate) perispore, average exospore length 32-37 µm. Plants sexual tetraploid: 2*n* = 144.

> In crevices of various kinds of rocks (often calcareous), in open or half-shaded situations; 400-3400 m. Anhui, Fujian, Gansu, Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Shaanxi, Shanxi, Sichuan, Taiwan, Xinjiang, Xizang, Yunnan, Zhejiang [worldwide in all temperate zones, in tropics on high mountains].
  "Synonym": "*Asplenium trichomanes* Linnaeus subsp. *quadrivalens* D. E. Meyer, Ber. Deutsch. Bot. Ges. 74: 456. 1962; *A. melanolepi*s Colenso, p.p. (1888), not Franchet &amp; Savatier (1879).
