紫菀组",
6.**Aster sect. Aster**",

> About 60 species: Asia, Europe; 49 species (40 endemic) in China.

## Description
Herbs, perennial, usually simple, sometimes branched, erect. Leaves basal (withered at anthesis) and cauline; blade spatulate or ovate to narrowly ovate or lanceolate, sometimes pandurate, margin flat, entire or serrate to coarsely serrate, 1-veined (rarely 3-veined). Capitula radiate, rarely discoid, terminal, numerous, in corymbiform synflorescences, rarely few, rarely solitary at ends of branches or in leaf axils. Involucres hemispheric, campanulate, or obconic, to cylindric-campanulate; phyllaries 3-7-seriate, unequal or sometimes subequal, membranous (upper part sometimes leaflike) or outer leaflike, not keeled, margin scarious. Receptacles flat or ± convex, rarely conic. Ray florets 1(or 2)-seriate, 10-40, purple, blue, lavender, pink, or white; disk floret limb campanulate or sometimes funnelform, lobes equal. Achenes obovoid or oblong to oblanceoloid, ± compressed, 2-6-ribbed. Pappus of ray and disk florets 1-4-seriate, of persistent, rarely caducous, numerous free bristles, innermost series clavate, outermost series of short bristles, rarely of scales, sometimes absent in ray and/or disk florets.
  "Reference": "As circumscribed here, *Aster* sect. *Aster* is paraphyletic to *A.* sect. *Alpigeni* (Brouillet et al. in Funk et al., Syst. Evol. Biogeogr. Compositae, 589-629. 2009). The separation of *A.* sect. *Aster* and *A.* sect. *Orthomeris* Torrey &amp; A. Gray (Y. Ling &amp; Y. L. Chen, FRPS 74: 134, 157. 1985) is unclear, and data supporting the segregation of monophyletic groups within the section are insufficient at the present time. Removal of the shrubby species of *A.* ser. *Albescentes* (Incertae sedis group above) renders the group more natural. Furthermore, the name *A.* sect. *Orthomeris* belongs to the North American *Oclemena* Greene (Brouillet, Fl. N. Amer. 20: 78-81. 2006) and would be inappropriate in *Aster* s.s.As circumscribed here, *Aster* sect. *Aster* is paraphyletic to *A.* sect. *Alpigeni* (Brouillet et al. in Funk et al., Syst. Evol. Biogeogr. Compositae, 589-629. 2009). The separation of *A.* sect. *Aster* and *A.* sect. *Orthomeris* Torrey &amp; A. Gray (Y. Ling &amp; Y. L. Chen, FRPS 74: 134, 157. 1985) is unclear, and data supporting the segregation of monophyletic groups within the section are insufficient at the present time. Removal of the shrubby species of *A.* ser. *Albescentes* (Incertae sedis group above) renders the group more natural. Furthermore, the name *A.* sect. *Orthomeris* belongs to the North American *Oclemena* Greene (Brouillet, Fl. N. Amer. 20: 78-81. 2006) and would be inappropriate in *Aster* s.s.
  "Synonym": "*Gymnaster* Kitamura (1937), not F. Schütt (1891) [Algae]; *Kitamuraea* Rauschert; *Kitamuraster* Soják; *Leptocoma* Lessing; *Miyamayomena* Kitamura; *Rhynchospermum* Reinwardt; *Zollingeria* Schultz Bipontinus.
