布尔卡黄耆",
381.**Astragalus burchan-buddaicus** N. Ulziykhutag Novo-sti Sist. Vyssh. Rast. 30: 104. 1996.",

## Description
Plants 20-40 cm tall, loosely caespitose, vegetative parts covered with ± medifixed, appressed hairs 0.4-0.8 mm. Stems many, branched at base, 6-35 cm, loosely white hairy, below nodes mostly also with black hairs. Leaves 4-6 cm; stipules 5-10 mm, sparsely to loosely covered with white or black and white hairs; petiole 1-1.5 cm, like rachis loosely to rather densely white hairy; leaflets in 6-8 pairs, 5-10 × 2-4 mm, abax-ially loosely white hairy, adaxially glabrous. Racemes spherical, 1.5-3 cm, densely 5-8-flowered; peduncle 4-7 cm, hairy; bracts 5-8 mm, mostly black hairy. Calyx at anthesis tubular, 12-14 mm, soon inflated, spherical to ovoid, 14-16 mm, loosely to rather densely covered with appressed to ascending, symmetri-cally to strongly asymmetrically bifurcate, black hairs 0.2-0.5 mm and with ascending to partly ± spreading, white hairs up to 1 mm; teeth 1-1.5(-2) mm. Petals pale pink; standard nar-rowly obovate, 23-27 × 5-8 mm, constricted below middle, apex widely emarginate; wings 20-24 mm, limbs obtriangu-lar, widest at obliquely bilobed tip; keel 16-20 mm. Legumes with a stipe 1-2 mm, included in calyx, 7-9 mm, 3-3.5 mm high, compressed laterally, with a strongly bent style 0.6-2 mm, incompletely 2-locular; valves densely covered with ascending to spreading, subbasifixed to basifixed, white hairs up to 1.5 mm and often also with much shorter black hairs.
  "Statistics": "● Qinghai.
