留土黄耆",
332.**Astragalus hypogaeus** Ledebour Icon. Pl. 1: t. 95. 1829.",

## Description
Plants 6-10 cm tall, acaulescent, caespitose, mostly spreading white hairy. Leaves 4-12(-14) cm; stipules 10-12 mm, adnate to petiole for 2-3 mm, densely covered with sub-basifixed or at margins basifixed, subappressed hairs ca. 1.5 mm; petiole 0.8-3 cm, like rachis densely to rather densely covered with ± symmetrically to slightly asymmetrically bifur-cate, flexuous, tangled, spreading hairs ca. 1 mm and with much fewer, straight, extremely asymmetrically bifurcate hairs ca. 1.5 mm; leaflets in 4-6(-8) pairs, obovate, 5-15 × 4.5-9 mm, abaxially rather densely covered with ascending to spreading hairs, adaxially loosely covered with subappressed to slightly ascending hairs; hairs 0.6-1.2 mm. Racemes subsessile, 2-5-flowered; bracts ca. 12 mm, linear-acute, loosely covered with subbasifixed to basifixed, nearly spreading hairs up to 2 mm. Calyx 15-18 mm, densely villous with symmetrically to strongly asymmetrically bifurcate, appressed to spreading hairs 1.5-2 mm; teeth 5-7 mm. Petals pale yellowish; standard oblong to narrowly obovate, (25-)27-32(-38) × 7-9 mm, slightly constricted below middle, base slightly to distinctly triangular-hastate, apex emarginate; wings 20-25(-29) mm, limbs unequally emarginate to bilobed; keel 18-22 mm. Leg-umes sessile, nearly inflated globose, 5-6 mm, with a beak 1-1.5 mm, 2-locular; valves densely covered with short hairs.
  "Statistics": "Xinjiang (Altay) [Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia (Siberia)].
