丛毛叶黄耆",
233.**Astragalus floccosifolius** Sumnevicz Sist. Zametki Mater. Gerb. Krylova Tomsk. Gosud. Univ. Kuybysheva. 1937(9-10): 2. 1937.",

## Description
Plants 15-35(-50) cm tall, caulescent or more rarely sub-acaulescent. Stems (1-)3-15(-30) cm, loosely to rather densely covered with spreading hairs up to 1 mm. Leaves 10-25(-30) cm; stipules 6-11 mm, adnate to petiole for 2-4 mm, ciliate and mostly loosely to rather densely subappressed hairy; petiole 3-7 cm, like rachis loosely to rather densely covered with ascending or more rarely spreading hairs 0.2-1 mm; leaflets in 18-30(-40) pairs, narrowly elliptic, 6-20 × 2-6 mm, abaxially loosely to rather densely appressed hairy, adaxially densely cot-tonlike hairy, often glabrescent with age, apex rounded to shortly acuminate. Racemes subsessile or with a peduncle 1-3(-5) cm and hairy like stem, loosely (1-)3-10(-12)-flowered; bracts 3-6 mm, hairy. Calyx 14-17 mm, densely covered with ascending hairs; tube ca. 10 mm; teeth 4-8 mm. Petals yellow, appressed hairy; standard obovate-pandurate, 18-24 × 8-11 mm, in lower part slightly constricted, apex emarginate; wings 16-22 mm; keel 12-18 mm, limbs obliquely elliptic to triangu-lar, 4-6 mm. Style below stigma with minute nipplelike hairs. Legumes with a stipe 1-4 mm, 11-17 mm, 4-6 mm high and wide, with a straight beak 1-2.5 mm, incompletely 2-locular; valves densely covered with nearly spreading hairs up to 2 mm.
  "Statistics": "Loessic soil, ephemeral steppes, under bushes; 800-2300(-3100) m. Xinjiang [Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Uzbeki-stan].
