花竹",
45.**Bambusa albolineata** L. C. Chia",

> The *nomen novum* *Bambusa albolineata* was published in the belief that the original epithet *\"albostriata\"* was blocked by the earlier but not validly published *nomen nudum* *\"B. albostriata* Hort. ex LavalleΘ\" (Arbor. Segrez. 306. 1877). Nevertheless, *B. albolineata* is legitimate because of the change in rank.

## Description
Culms 6–8 m, 3.5–5.5 cm in diam., apically drooping; internodes 40–60(–80) cm, basal 1st to 4th (to 6th) internodes with pale yellow stripes; wall slightly thin; nodes flat, basal 1st to 4th nodes usually with a ring of gray-white silky hairs above sheath scar; branching from 4th to 6th node up. Branches many, clustered, central 3 dominant. Culm sheaths deciduous, leathery, rigid, apex slightly asymmetrical, arched or shallowly undulate, abaxially with yellow-white stripes, both sides sparsely stiffly dull brown strigose, sparser to nearly absent abaxially, denser adaxially, sheaths on basal 2 nodes densely hairy on lower half; auricles unequal, minutely wrinkled, margin sparsely thickly shortly setose near ends, larger ones oblong or nearly oblanceolate, ca. 1.5 × 0.5–0.7 cm, smaller usually continuous with blade base, oblong-oblanceolate if separated from blade, 1/3–1/2 size of larger one; ligule 1–1.5 mm, shortly dentate, very shortly fringed; blade erect, asymmetrically ovate to narrowly ovate-triangular, those on lower nodes usually with yellow-white stripes, base slightly rounded and joined to auricles for 4–5 mm, ca. 5/7 width of sheath apex, apex acuminate, apiculate. Leaf blade linear, 7–15(–24) × 0.9–1.5(–2.2) cm, abaxially pilose, adaxially scabrous. Pseudospikelets usually in clusters of 3–5 at nodes of flowering branches, linear-lanceolate, 2–2.5 × 0.4–0.5 cm; prophylls ca. 3 mm, 2-keeled, keels ciliolate; gemmiferous bracts subovate, ca. 4.5 mm, glabrous, 15-veined, apex obtuse and mucronate; florets 5–7, apical one sterile; rachilla segments flat, ca. 3 mm, glabrous, margin erose, apex enlarged. Glumes 1, oval, ca. 5 mm, 15–17-veined, glabrous, apex obtuse and mucronate; lemma elliptic, 7–9 mm, glabrous, 17–19-veined, apex obtuse, mucronate; palea linear-lanceolate, 7.5–9.5 mm, keels glabrous, 8-veined between and 2-veined on either side of keels, margin very shortly ciliolate, bifid with apices of keels extended and deflexed, apex subtruncate; lodicules 3, unequal; anterior 2 oblique, ca. 3 mm, margins long ciliate; posterior 1 nearly obovate-elliptic, ca. 2 mm. Anthers ca. 4 mm. Ovary broadly ovoid, ca. 1 mm, base stalked, apex thickened and hispidulous; style very short, 0.4–0.5 mm, hispidulous; stigmas 3, ca. 6 mm. Mature caryopsis unknown.

> * Cultivated on low hills, plains, and along riversides. Fujian, Guangdong, Jiangxi, Taiwan, Zhejiang.
  "Synonym": "*Bambusa textilis* McClure var. *albostriata* McClure, Lingnan Univ. Sci. Bull. 9: 15. 1940 [*\"albo-striata\"*]; *B. albo-striata* (McClure) Ohrnberger, nom. superfl.
