簕茜属",
8.**Benkara** Adanson Fam. Pl. 2: 85, 525. 1763.",

> About 19 species: China, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam; seven species (four endemic) in China.

## Description
Shrubs or small trees, erect to clambering or perhaps scandent, usually armed with paired, ascending, straight to slightly curved, axillary thorns, often with short shoots. Raphides absent. Leaves opposite or sometimes congested to apparently fascicled on lateral short shoots, usually with domatia; stipules caducous, interpetiolar or shortly united around stem, generally triangular, acute to cuspidate. Inflorescences terminal on lateral branches and/or short shoots, 1-flowered or 2- to several flowered and fasciculate to cymose, sessile to pedunculate, bracteate or bracts reduced. Flowers pedicellate, bisexual, monomorphic. Calyx limb 5-lobed, usually with well-developed basal tubular portion. Corolla white to yellow, salverform, usually pubescent in throat; lobes 5, convolute in bud, usually spreading to reflexed. Stamens 5, inserted in corolla throat, partially to fully exserted; filaments short; anthers dorsifixed. Ovary 2-celled, ovules several to many in each cell on axile placentas; stigma clavate to fusiform or 2-lobed with lobes coherent, included to partially exserted. Fruiting pedicels sometimes elongating. Fruit purplish black, baccate, fleshy to leathery or infrequently woody, globose to ellipsoid, smooth, with calyx limb tardily deciduous; seeds several to numerous, medium-sized, angled or ellipsoid, embedded in pulp; testa weakly areolate.
  "Reference": "Ridsdale (Reinwardtia 12: 289-300. 2008) recently reviewed *Oxyceros* and *Fagerlindia* and concluded by re-circumscribing *Oxyceros* Loureiro (Fl. Cochinch. 1: 150. 1790) and synonymizing *Fagerlindia* with *Benkara*. In this new circumscription, *Oxyceros* comprises species distinguished by markedly recurved thorns (or spines), notably *O. horridus* Loureiro, and is not represented (as far as now known) in the Chinese flora. Ridsdale (loc. cit.) transferred all the Chinese species previously included in *Oxyceros* to *Benkara*, with straight or only slightly curved spines or thorns. One Chinese species included by Ridsdale in *Fagerlindia* and later *Benkara* is here instead treated as *Aidia canthioides*.Ridsdale (Reinwardtia 12: 289-300. 2008) recently reviewed *Oxyceros* and *Fagerlindia* and concluded by re-circumscribing *Oxyceros* Loureiro (Fl. Cochinch. 1: 150. 1790) and synonymizing *Fagerlindia* with *Benkara*. In this new circumscription, *Oxyceros* comprises species distinguished by markedly recurved thorns (or spines), notably *O. horridus* Loureiro, and is not represented (as far as now known) in the Chinese flora. Ridsdale (loc. cit.) transferred all the Chinese species previously included in *Oxyceros* to *Benkara*, with straight or only slightly curved spines or thorns. One Chinese species included by Ridsdale in *Fagerlindia* and later *Benkara* is here instead treated as *Aidia canthioides*.
  "Synonym": "*Fagerlindia* Tirvengadum; *Griffithia* Wight &amp; Arnott.
  "keylist": "
1 Flowers subsessile to very shortly pedicellate, on pedicels 0.5-1.5 mm.[*B. sinensis* 簕茜](Benkara sinensis.md)
1 Flowers pedicellate or pedunculate, on pedicels or peduncles 1-15 mm with at least some of them more than 2 mm——(2)
2(1) Branchlets and calyx glabrous; corolla white, with tube 14-22 mm and lobes 5-12 mm——(3)
2 Branchlets and calyx glabrous to puberulent, pilosulous, strigillose, or hirtellous; corolla white or yellow, with tube 3-7 mm and lobes 5-8 mm——(4)
3(2) Secondary leaf veins 4-6 pairs; calyx lobes 0.5-1.2 mm; plants drying with characteristic yellowed color.[*B. rectispina* 直刺簕茜](Benkara rectispina.md)
3 Secondary leaf veins 2 or 3 pairs; calyx lobes 1.5-2 mm; plants drying greenish to grayish.[*B. scandens* 浓子茉莉](Benkara scandens.md)
4(2) Calyx limb with tubular portion 3.5-4 mm; corolla white.[*B. depauperata* 多刺簕茜](Benkara depauperata.md)
4 Calyx limb with tubular portion 1-3 mm; corolla white to yellow——(5)
5(4) Flowers 1 or 2 in fascicles, these sometimes congested and appearing as a cyme; leaves obtuse to rounded and sometimes shortly mucronate at apex.[*B. evenosa* 无脉簕茜](Benkara evenosa.md)
5 Flowers 3 to several in cymes branched to 2 or more orders; leaves acute to acuminate at apex with tips sharp to slightly blunt——(6)
6(5) Corolla with tube 5-6 mm and lobes ca. 5 mm; leaves 1.5-5 cm wide, usually at least some leaves wider than 3 cm.[*B. forrestii* 滇簕茜](Benkara forrestii.md)
6 Corolla with tube ca. 7 mm and lobes ca. 8 mm; leaves 1.5-3 cm wide.[*B. hainanensis* 海南簕茜",](Benkara hainanensis.md)
