高山兰属",
44.**Bhutanthera** Renz Edinburgh J. Bot. 58: 99. 2001.",

> Five species: all found in the alpine zone of the E Himalayas; one species in China.

## Description
Herbs, terrestrial, small, slender to stout. Tubers subglobose to ovoid, fleshy, neck with a few filiform roots. Stem erect, short, covered with tubular sheaths and sheathing leaf bases, glabrous. Leaves 2 or more, subopposite or clustered toward apex of stem, ovate, elliptic, or lanceolate, base tapering into amplexicaul sheath. Inflorescence terminal, racemose, 1-20-flowered, glabrous. Flowers resupinate; ovary twisted, fusiform to obovoid. Sepals free, similar. Petals usually smaller than sepals; lip 3-lobed though lateral lobes sometimes reduced and obscure, spurred at base; spur conic to cylindric. Column short, stout; anther with distinct connective and 2 divergent locules; stigma 2-lobed, conjoined, pulvinate; rostellum with 2 distinct arms; pollinia 2, granular-farinaceous, sectile, each attached by a short caudicle to a small naked viscidium; rostellum relatively large.
  "Reference": "*Bhutanthera albomarginata* (King &amp; Pantling) Renz (Edinbugh J. Bot. 58: 101. 2001; *Habenaria albomarginata* King &amp; Pantling, Ann. Roy. Bot. Gard. Calcutta 8: 322. 1898) has been noted from Xizang (Press et al., Annot. Checkl. Fl. Pl. Nepal, 217. 2000). However, the present authors found no relevant specimens and therefore could not substantiate the occurrence of this species in China.*Bhutanthera albomarginata* (King &amp; Pantling) Renz (Edinbugh J. Bot. 58: 101. 2001; *Habenaria albomarginata* King &amp; Pantling, Ann. Roy. Bot. Gard. Calcutta 8: 322. 1898) has been noted from Xizang (Press et al., Annot. Checkl. Fl. Pl. Nepal, 217. 2000). However, the present authors found no relevant specimens and therefore could not substantiate the occurrence of this species in China.
