朴莱木",
1.**Canthium gynochthodes** Baillon Adansonia. 12: 199. 1878.",

## Description
Small trees, height not noted, often rather succulent; branches flattened becoming subterete, glabrous. Petiole 1-5 mm, glabrous; leaf blade drying thinly leathery, elliptic to elliptic-oblong or obovate, 3-8 × 1.5-5 cm, glabrous on both surfaces, base acute to obtuse, apex obtuse to shortly acute; secondary veins 3 or 4 pairs, in abaxial axils with foveolate and sometimes also pilosulous domatia; stipules persistent, shortly united around stem, triangular to ovate, 2-4.5 mm, glabrous, aristate to cuspidate. Inflorescences glabrous, 1-3.5 cm, several flowered; peduncles 0.8-2.5 cm, terminating in a pair of bracteoles, these triangular, ca. 1 mm, shortly fused; pedicels 4-7 mm. Flowers unisexual on dioecious plants. Calyx glabrous; ovary portion of pistillate flowers ca. 1.2 mm; limb ca. 0.5 mm, truncate to undulate. Corolla white to pale green, outside glabrous; tube ca. 1.5 mm; lobes 4, 2-2.5(-6) mm, acute. Ovary 2-celled; stigma ca. 0.3 mm. Drupes orangish yellow, oblate or obovoid to dicoccous, ca. 8 × 10 mm, smooth, glabrous, with calyx limb persistent; pyrenes 2. Fl. Aug.
  "Reference": "Only very young flower buds have been seen so far from China; the descriptions here of the mature flowers and the fruit are based in large part on the description by Liu and Yang (Fl. Taiwan, ed. 2, 4: 247-248. 1998) and on Philippine specimens. The synonymy here is taken from Merrill (Enum. Philipp. Pl. 3: 536-537. 1923). The accepted species epithet was incorrectly spelled as *\"gynochodes\"* by Liu and Yang (loc. cit.: 247).Only very young flower buds have been seen so far from China; the descriptions here of the mature flowers and the fruit are based in large part on the description by Liu and Yang (Fl. Taiwan, ed. 2, 4: 247-248. 1998) and on Philippine specimens. The synonymy here is taken from Merrill (Enum. Philipp. Pl. 3: 536-537. 1923). The accepted species epithet was incorrectly spelled as *\"gynochodes\"* by Liu and Yang (loc. cit.: 247).
  "Statistics": "Forests on mountain ridges. Taiwan [Philippines].
  "Synonym": "*Canthium cumingii* Vidal; *Plectronia cumingii* (Vidal) Merrill; *P. gynochthodes* (Baillon) Merrill; *P. moluccana* Merrill; *P. umbellata* K. Schumann.
