露珠碎米荠",
33.**Cardamine circaeoides** J. D. Hooker & Thomson",

> Although the present authors have not seen the type collection of &lt;I&gt;Cardamine agyokumontana&lt;/I&gt;, the protologue of the species and the examination of numerous, simple-leaved specimens from Taiwan leave no doubt that this taxon is conspecific with &lt;I&gt;C. circaeoides&lt;/I&gt;. Records in FRPS of &lt;I&gt;C. circaeoides&lt;/I&gt; (as &lt;I&gt;C. violifolia&lt;/I&gt;) from Anhui, Hubei, and Zhejiang (also in Fl. Zhejiang 3: 55. 1993) are based on misidentified plants of &lt;I&gt;C. anhuiensis&lt;/I&gt;.&lt;P&gt;Both &lt;I&gt;Cardamine violifolia&lt;/I&gt; and &lt;I&gt;C. violifolia&lt;/I&gt; var. &lt;I&gt;diversifolia&lt;/I&gt; are based on the same type collection, Henry 3298 (holotype, B; isotypes, BM, E, GH, P, US), and the latter name is therefore invalid under Art. 26.2 of the St. Louis Code. The only difference between the two taxa is the presence in var. &lt;I&gt;diversifolia&lt;/I&gt; of trifoliolate instead of simple leaves, though such variation is very common in, and can be observed on the holotype specimen of, &lt;I&gt;C. circaeoides&lt;/I&gt;. Schulz (Bot. Jahrb. Syst. 32: 280-623. 1903) separated &lt;I&gt;C. violifolia&lt;/I&gt; from &lt;I&gt;C. circaeoides&lt;/I&gt; mainly on account of the former having minutely auriculate instead of nonauriculate petiolar bases. However, he overlooked the occurrence of minute petiolar auricles in every specimen he cited under &lt;I&gt;C. circaeoides&lt;/I&gt;, including the type collection. In fact, all of the Chinese and non-Chinese material of &lt;I&gt;C. circaeoides&lt;/I&gt; examined by the present authors has petiolar auricles. The type collection of &lt;I&gt;C. insignis&lt;/I&gt;, A. Henry 13090 (holotype, B; isotypes, E, K, LE, MO), is indistinguishable from those of both &lt;I&gt;C. circaeoides&lt;/I&gt; and &lt;I&gt;C. violifolia&lt;/I&gt;, and Schulz's distinction of these species based on the orientation of the pedicels does not hold.&lt;P&gt;

## Description
Herbs perennial, (5-)9-36(-45) cm tall, sparsely to densely pilose at least on leaves. Rhizomes slender, sometimes with a few stolons. Stems slender, erect or decumbent, simple or rarely branched above middle. Basal leaves not fleshy, simple or rarely 2-4-foliolate; petiole 1-9(-12) cm, glabrous or rarely ciliate; leaf blade or terminal leaflets cordate or ovate, rarely suborbicular, (0.7-)1.5-5.5(-6.7) × (0.7-)1.5-4.3(-5) cm, always longer than wide, pilose or glabrous, base cordate, sometimes obtuse, subtruncate, or subcuneate, margin often repand-crenate, sometimes coarsely crenate, crenulate, or subentire, often distinctly mucronate at vein endings, apex obtuse; lateral leaflets (when present) petiolulate or sessile, much smaller than terminal one. Cauline leaves 1-4, simple or rarely 1 of which 2- or 3-foliolate, petiolate or rarely uppermost subsessile; petiole (0.4-)1-5(-6) cm, with basal auricles 0.4-2 × 0.2-0.4 mm; leaf blade similar to that of basal leaves, cordate, sometimes ovate to ovate-lanceolate, 1-3.5(-6) × 1-3(-3.5) cm. Fruiting pedicels 3-12(-15) mm, ascending, divaricate, or reflexed, sometimes secund, glabrous, slender. Sepals ovate or oblong, 2-3.5 × 0.8-1.5 mm, glabrous, margin often membranous, base not saccate. Petals white, spatulate, (4-)5-7(-8) × (1.5-)2-2.5(-4) mm. Median filament pairs (2.5-)3.5-5 mm, lateral pair (2-)2.5-3.5 mm; anthers oblong, 0.5-1 mm. Ovules 20-42 per ovary. Fruit linear, 1.3-3(-3.3) cm × 0.8-1.2(-1.5) mm; valves torulose, glabrous; style (0.5-)1-2 mm. Seeds brown, ovate or broadly oblong, 0.8-1.1 × 0.6-0.9 mm, wingless. Fl. and fr. Feb-Jul.

> Ravines, along streams and ditches, rocky places, mixed woods, moist pastures, roadsides, forests; 400-3300 m. Gansu, Guangdong, Guangxi, Hunan, Sichuan, Taiwan, Yunnan [India, Laos, Myanmar, Sikkim, Thailand, Vietnam].
  "Synonym": "&lt;I&gt;Cardamine agyokumontana&lt;/I&gt; Hayata; &lt;I&gt;C. circaeoides&lt;/I&gt; var. &lt;I&gt;diversifolia&lt;/I&gt; O. E. Schulz; &lt;I&gt;C. heterandra&lt;/I&gt; J. Z. Sun &amp; K. L. Chang; &lt;I&gt;C. insignis&lt;/I&gt; O. E. Schulz; &lt;I&gt;C. macrocephala&lt;/I&gt; Z. M. Tan &amp; S. C. Zhou; &lt;I&gt;C. reniformis&lt;/I&gt; Hayata; &lt;I&gt;C. violifolia&lt;/I&gt; O. E. Schulz; &lt;I&gt;C. violifolia&lt;/I&gt; var. &lt;I&gt;diversifolia&lt;/I&gt; O. E. Schulz, nom. inval.; &lt;I&gt;C. violifolia&lt;/I&gt; var. &lt;I&gt;pilosa&lt;/I&gt; K. L. Chang &amp; H. L. Huang.
**12. 露珠碎米荠（种子植物名称再版）图版49：6-12**

Cardamine circaeoides Hook. f. et Thoms. in Journ. Linn. Soc. Bot. 5: 144. 1861; Hook. f. et T. Anders. in Hook. f, Fl. Brit. Ind. 1: 137; 1872; O. E. Schulz in Engl. Bot. Jahrb. 32: 441. 1903; Gagnep. in Lecomte, Fl. L'Indo-Chine Suppl. 1: 154. 1939. ——C. inignis O. E. Schulz in Engl. Bot. Jahrb. 32: 439. 1903. syn. nov.

一年或多年生草本，高6-30厘米。根状茎细长，向下倾斜或匍匐生长。茎细弱，直立，不分枝或偶有分枝，无毛。叶全为单叶、膜质；基生叶有长柄，叶片心形或卵状心形，长1.2-4厘米，宽1.2-3.2厘米，顶端钝或微凸，有细小短尖头，基部心形，边缘有浅波状圆齿，上面绿色，有时散生短柔毛，下面有时为紫色，无毛；茎生叶有柄，与基生叶相似，长2-5.2厘米，宽1.4-4厘米。总状花序花少数；花萼长椭圆形，长约2.5毫米，边缘膜质；花瓣白色，狭长椭圆状楔形，长约3毫米；花丝扩大；雌蕊柱状，花柱短，柱头比花柱稍宽。长角果线形，长13-30毫米，宽约1毫米；果瓣于种子间下陷；果梗直立开展或水平开展，或向下弯曲，长4-5毫米。种子椭圆形或长圆形，长约1毫米，淡褐色。花、果期4-10月。

产湖南西部及云南（昆明、景东、凤庆、广南、澜沧及西双版纳等地）。生于山谷、沟边及林下阴湿岩石上，海拔1350-2500米。分布于喜马拉雅山东南部，如锡金以及越南。模式标本采自锡金。
