振铎岩参",
5.**Cicerbita zhenduoi** (S. W. Liu & T. N. Ho) N. Kilian Fl. China. 20-21: 216. 2011.",

## Description
Herbs 15-30 cm tall, perennial, rosulate. Rhizomes short. Stem erect, branched from base or higher up, glabrous or white pubescent. Rosette leaves glabrous or pubescent, margin ± entire. Early leaves with distinct 1.3-3 cm petiole; leaf blade triangular-ovate, 1-1.8 × 0.6-0.8 cm, base sagittate, truncate, or cuneate, apex obtuse to acute. Leaf blade of later rosette leaves elliptic to lanceolate, 4-8.5 × 0.3-0.8 cm, undivided to rarely weakly pinnatifid with few triangular lobes, base gradually attenuate, apex acute to long acuminate. Stem leaves similar to later rosette leaves, narrowly ovate-elliptic to narrowly lanceolate; uppermost leaves bractlike. Synflorescence loosely racemiform or paniculiform, glabrous or pubescent, with few to some capitula. Capitula with usually 4-7 florets. Involucre narrowly cylindric, 6-8 × 1.5-2 mm. Phyllaries glabrous or pubescent; outer phyllaries ovate to lanceolate, longest ca. 4 × 1 mm, apex acute; inner phyllaries apically blackish purple, apex obtuse. Florets blue. Achene fusiform and apically attenuate, ca. 4 mm, somewhat compressed. Pappus 4-5 mm. Fl. and fr. Sep.
  "Reference": "We have not seen material of *Cicerbita zhenduoi*; therefore, its inclusion follows Tzvelev (Rast. Tsentral. Azii 14b: 100. 2008), and its description is taken from the original publication. We are not convinced that *Youngia cyanea*, described also from the environment of Jiangxigou, distinguished chiefly by the shape of the rosette leaves and the absence or presence of pubescence, represents a different species. From the variation experienced in the subtribe, the differences in either feature may well be within the usual range found. The corresponding combination under *Chaetoseris* provided by Tzvelev is illegitimate as a later homonym of *Chaetoseris cyanea* (D. Don) C. Shih, and the epithet is also not available in *Cicerbita*. Until closer study of the material, we prefer to treat both as conspecific.We have not seen material of *Cicerbita zhenduoi*; therefore, its inclusion follows Tzvelev (Rast. Tsentral. Azii 14b: 100. 2008), and its description is taken from the original publication. We are not convinced that *Youngia cyanea*, described also from the environment of Jiangxigou, distinguished chiefly by the shape of the rosette leaves and the absence or presence of pubescence, represents a different species. From the variation experienced in the subtribe, the differences in either feature may well be within the usual range found. The corresponding combination under *Chaetoseris* provided by Tzvelev is illegitimate as a later homonym of *Chaetoseris cyanea* (D. Don) C. Shih, and the epithet is also not available in *Cicerbita*. Until closer study of the material, we prefer to treat both as conspecific.
  "Statistics": "● Moist slopes, riverbanks; 3600-3700 m. Qinghai (Yushu).
  "Synonym": "Basionym: *Youngia zhenduoi* S. W. Liu &amp; T. N. Ho, Acta Phytotax. Sin. 39: 554. 2001; *Chaetoseris cyanea* (S. W. Liu &amp; T. N. Ho) Tzvelev (2007), not (D. Don) C. Shih (1991); *C. zhenduoi* (S. W. Liu &amp; T. N. Ho) Tzvelev; *Y. cyanea* S. W. Liu &amp; T. N. Ho.
