松叶鸡蛋参",
40.**Codonopsis graminifolia** H. Léveillé Cat. Pl. Yun-Nan. 24. 1916.",

## Description
Plants glabrous throughout. Roots ovoid or oblong, 0.8-1.5 cm in diam. Stems decumbent below, twining only at upper part, sometimes suberect, up to 1 m, simple or branched. Cauline leaves alternate, usually aggregated at lower part, sessile, linear to linear-lanceolate, 2-10.5 × 0.1-1 cm, base cuneate, margin entire, often recurved toward lateral sides, apex acuminate. Flowers solitary, terminal. Calyx tube adnate to ovary up to top of ovary, obconical; lobes narrowly triangular, 4-10 × 2-3 mm, entire. Corolla blue or purple, divided to near base; lobes elliptic, 8-26 × 4-12 mm. Filaments dilated at base, densely white villous on sides; anthers ca. 3 mm. Capsule obconical and ca. 6 mm in diam. at inferior part, broadly conical at superior part. Seeds numerous, brown-yellow. Fl. Jul-Sep, fr. Sep-Oct.
  "Reference": "Two of us (Lammers and Klein) regard *Codonopsis graminifolia* and *C. limprichtii* var. *pinifolia* as synonyms of *C. limprichtii* because we can discern no way to distinguish *C. limprichtii* from the other two entities; see Lammers and Klein (Bot. Stud. (Taipei) 51: 553-561. 2010). However, one of us (Hong) notes that the description in the protologue of *C. limprichtii* (Lingelsheim &amp; Borza, Repert. Spec. Nov. Regni Veg. 13: 391-392. 1914; *\"... Folia. ..... inferiora ovalia, parce obtuse dentata, ad 3 cm longa, 2 cm lata, superiora lanceolata, integerrima, ad 5 cm longa et 1 cm lata,. ..\"*) and the isotype, *H. W. Limpricht 851* (WU), represent a broader-leaved entity rather than the narrow-leaved plant described here as *C. graminifolia*. Therefore, *C. graminifolia* and *C. limprichtii* cannot be conspecific, and the latter is instead treated here in the synonymy of *C. convolvulacea* subsp. *forrestii*.Two of us (Lammers and Klein) regard *Codonopsis graminifolia* and *C. limprichtii* var. *pinifolia* as synonyms of *C. limprichtii* because we can discern no way to distinguish *C. limprichtii* from the other two entities; see Lammers and Klein (Bot. Stud. (Taipei) 51: 553-561. 2010). However, one of us (Hong) notes that the description in the protologue of *C. limprichtii* (Lingelsheim &amp; Borza, Repert. Spec. Nov. Regni Veg. 13: 391-392. 1914; *\"... Folia. ..... inferiora ovalia, parce obtuse dentata, ad 3 cm longa, 2 cm lata, superiora lanceolata, integerrima, ad 5 cm longa et 1 cm lata,. ..\"*) and the isotype, *H. W. Limpricht 851* (WU), represent a broader-leaved entity rather than the narrow-leaved plant described here as *C. graminifolia*. Therefore, *C. graminifolia* and *C. limprichtii* cannot be conspecific, and the latter is instead treated here in the synonymy of *C. convolvulacea* subsp. *forrestii*.
  "Statistics": "● *Pinus* forests, thickets, open grassy slopes; 1500-3300 m. W Guizhou (Weining), SW Sichuan, N Yunnan.
  "Synonym": "*Codonopsis convolvulacea* Kurz var. *pinifolia* (Handel-Mazzetti) Nannfeldt; *C. limprichtii* Lingelsheim &amp; Borza var. *pinifolia* Handel-Mazzetti.
**39c. 松叶鸡蛋参（变种）松叶党参（中国高等植物图鉴）**

var. pinifolia (Hand. -Mazz.) Nannf. in Hand. -Mazz., Symb. Sin. 7 (4): 1077. 1936; 沈联德等, 植物分类学报, 13 (3): 54. 图版3. 图5. 1975.——C. limprichtii var. pinifolia Hand. -Mazz., Anzeig. Akad. Wiss. Wien. Math. -Nat. 61: 170. 1924.——C. graminifolia Levl., Cat. Pl. Yunnan, 24. 1915.

与原变种不同的仅在于：茎常短，长60厘米以下，少较长的；叶常集中于茎中下部，密集，他处几乎无叶，叶片极狭长，通常条形或近于针状，长可达10厘米，宽不过0.5厘米。

产贵州（威宁）、云南（禄劝、大理、宾川、丽江、中甸）、四川西南部（盐源、会理、布拖、西昌、冕宁）。生于海拔3000米以下的草地及松林下。
