新疆还阳参
16.**Crepis darvazica** Krascheninnikov Trudy Bot. Inst. Akad. Nauk S.S.S.R., Ser. 1, Fl. Sist. Vyssh. Rast. 1: 182. 1933.

## Description
Herbs 20-60 cm tall, perennial, with a taproot. Stems solitary or more rarely 2-4, from a short woody caudex, erect, sparsely branched apically or rarely from middle, sparsely white arachnoid hairy and especially proximally with rigid subulate partly glandular hairs, covered with leaf bases of former leaves, leafy. Basal and lower stem leaves elliptic-oblanceolate to oblanceolate, 5-24 × 2-5 cm, both faces with rigid mostly glandular hairs but especially abaxially, base attenuate, margin sinuate-dentate, apex obtuse to acute. Middle and upper stem leaves ovate to narrowly elliptic-lanceolate, base auriculately clasping, margin sparsely dentate or entire, apex acute to acuminate, otherwise similar to lower leaves; uppermost stem leaf reduced, bractlike. Synflorescence laxly corymbiform, with few to several capitula. Peduncle 1-6 cm, straight or slightly curved. Involucre campanulate, 1.2-1.6 × 0.6-1 cm. Phyllaries abaxially white arachnoid hairy and especially basally and along midvein with ± dense yellowish brown short rigid glandular hairs; outer phyllaries triangular-ovate, triangular, or lanceolate, longest 1/3-2/3 as long as inner ones, apex ± acute; inner phyllaries 12-14, adaxially glabrous, margin scarious, apex obtuse. Anther tube 4.5-5.5 mm. Achene dark reddish brown, fusiform, 7-10 mm, with 16-20 ribs. Pappus white, 8-10 mm. Fl. and fr. Jun-Aug.

  "Reference": "*Crepis darvazica* has been reported generally from the border range between China, E Kyrgyzstan, and NE Tajikistan (Czerepanov, Fl. URSS 29: 633. 1966), but so far no substantiated records from Chinese territory are known (C. H. An, Fl. Xinjiang. 5: 456. 1999). The above description is based on material from E Kazakhstan and the descriptions by Czerepanov (loc. cit.) and Babcock (Univ. Calif. Publ. Bot. 22: 426. 1947).*Crepis darvazica* has been reported generally from the border range between China, E Kyrgyzstan, and NE Tajikistan (Czerepanov, Fl. URSS 29: 633. 1966), but so far no substantiated records from Chinese territory are known (C. H. An, Fl. Xinjiang. 5: 456. 1999). The above description is based on material from E Kazakhstan and the descriptions by Czerepanov (loc. cit.) and Babcock (Univ. Calif. Publ. Bot. 22: 426. 1947).

  "Statistics": "Rocky or gravelly mountain slopes; 1300-2600 m. Xinjiang [E Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan].

  "Synonym": "*Crepis rigida* Waldstein &amp; Kitaibel var. *songorica* Karelin &amp; Kirilov; *C. songorica* (Karelin &amp; Kirilov) Babcock.

  "frpsdesc": "",
