琴叶还阳参",
3.**Crepis lyrata** (Linnaeus) Froelich in Candolle Prodr. 7: 170. 1838.",

## Description
Herbs 20-80[-110] cm tall, perennial, with a short slender ± oblique rhizome and short caudex. Stem solitary, erect, sparsely and shortly branched apically, sparsely pubescent with yellow glandless hairs, sparsely leafy. Basal and lower stem leaves narrowly obovate to spatulate and gradually attenuate into a winged petiole-like basal portion, 10-22[-30] × 3-6 cm, almost undivided to lyrately pinnatisect, sparsely pubescent with short yellow hairs, base narrow to narrowly auriculate-amplexicaul, margin sinuate-dentate and denticulate; lateral lobes ovate, triangular-ovate, or elliptic, apex rounded to more rarely acute; terminal lobe ovate to lanceolate, much larger than lateral lobes, apex acute to rounded. Middle stem leaves spatulate to lanceolate, similar to lower stem leaves but smaller, base broader and more clasping; uppermost stem leaves bractlike. Synflorescence small, corymbiform, with few capitula. Capitula with 35-45 florets; peduncle slender, with dense short blackish glandular hairs. Involucre dark green, campanulate, 7-9 × 4-8 mm. Phyllaries abaxially with short blackish glandular and often with setaceous simple hairs; outer phyllaries linear, longest 1/4-1/2 as long as inner ones, apex acute; inner phyllaries adaxially glabrous, apex acute. Anther tube ca. 3.5 mm. Achene brown, fusiform, 3.5-4 mm, with 20 slender ribs, apex slightly constricted. Pappus white, 4-5 mm, persistent. Fl. Jun-Jul. 2*n* = 12.
  "Statistics": "Moist meadows, stream banks; 1200-2400 m. Xinjiang [Kazakhstan, C Russia].
  "Synonym": "*Hieracium lyratum* Linnaeus, Sp. Pl. 2: 803. 1753.
