安宁猪屎豆",
42.**Crotalaria anningensis** X. Y. Zhu & Y. F. Du in X. Y. Zhu et al. Legumes China. 631. 2007.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, ca. 9 cm tall, with appressed ferruginous trichomes. Stipules absent. Leaves simple; petiole ca. 1 mm; leaf blade elliptic, 5-7 × 2-3 mm, abaxially with appressed tri-chomes, adaxially green, with dense white papillae, base cune-ate, apex acute. Racemes terminal, 3-6 cm, 6-15-flowered; bracts linear, ca. 2 mm. Pedicel 2-4 mm; bracteoles similar to bracts, ca. 2 mm. Calyx 2-lipped, ca. 7 mm, deeply (4 or)5-lobed, with appressed trichomes; abaxial 3 lobes linear 5-6 mm; adaxial 2 lobes ovate-lanceolate. Corolla yellow, exserted from calyx; standard suborbicular, ca. 6 × 5 mm, margins proxi-mally with glandular trichomes, basal claw ca. 1 mm, with 2 pulvinate callosities, apex rounded; wings oblong, 4-6 × 2-3 mm; keel ± as long as standard, incurved above middle, beak not twisted. Ovary sessile, ?glabrous. Legume not seen. Fl. Mar.
  "Reference": "*Crotalaria anningensis* is known to us only from the protologue. The presence of glandular trichomes on the margins of the standard are atypical for *Crotalaria* and, coupled with the absence of fruit, throws some doubt on the generic placement of this taxon. In the protologue, it states that the ovary is pilose, but in the illustration accompanying the protologue the ovary is shown as glabrous.*Crotalaria anningensis* is known to us only from the protologue. The presence of glandular trichomes on the margins of the standard are atypical for *Crotalaria* and, coupled with the absence of fruit, throws some doubt on the generic placement of this taxon. In the protologue, it states that the ovary is pilose, but in the illustration accompanying the protologue the ovary is shown as glabrous.
  "Statistics": "● Yunnan (Anning).
