旋苞隐棒花",
1.**Cryptocoryne crispatula** Engler Pflanzenr. 73(IV. 23F): 247. 1920.",

## Description
Rhizome sometimes with a metallic blue-gray color, 0.5-1 cm in diam., irregularly thickened. Root system sometimes with many finely branched upright roots. Leaves green to brown, very variable, narrowly linear to lanceolate, 10-70 × 0.2-4 cm, smooth to undulate to bullate, margin entire to finely, irregularly denticulate; broader leaf blades mostly with conspicuous lateral veins. Generally, two ecological leaf forms occur: 1) plants that grow submerged for most of year, thus developing long flaccid-lax submerged leaves (sometimes also developing shorter, stiffer emergent leaves); 2) plants that develop short terete leaves during rainy season and, when water level decreases, form normal emergent leaves at anthesis. Spathe outside greenish to brownish, 10-40(-60) cm; kettle 1-2.5 cm, inside somewhat constricted below male flowers, inside ± reddish (especially distally) and with alveolae (depressions in wall) in distal part; flap closing kettle sometimes ± purple spotted; tube slightly to somewhat twisted, 5-30(-45) cm; limb ± spirally twisted, yellowish to grayish, with short to long, purple to reddish markings, sometimes markings almost completely covering surface, or few and faint, or absent, (1.5-)3-8(-12) cm; collar not present. Spadix: female flowers 4-6, with horizontal to vertical, round to ovoid stigmas; olfactory bodies ± irregularly lobed with protruding cells; male flowers 90-130, thecae rough from protruding cells. Fruit splitting in a septicidal/septifragal-ceratium-like way, greenish to purplish, narrowly globose, 1-1.5 cm, smooth. Seeds brownish, 5-8 mm, rugose; endosperm present; embryo cone-shaped with an undifferentiated plumule. 2*n* = 36, 54.
  "Reference": "*Cryptocoryne crispatula* s.l. is here interpreted as one species comprising different ecological races, i.e., leaf forms that are adapted to the water supply and the overall topography of the rivers in which they grow. In rivers with more constant water-bearings, and not too steep a fall, the more aquatic ones occur, viz. the long, narrow-leaved forms with an undulate or bullate leaf blade. In rivers with a seasonal variation in the water-bearings, the more amphibious ones occur, characterized by having shorter, ± smooth leaves. The variation within *C. crispatula* is very complex, with more than six recognizable forms in mainland Asia, some more readily distinguishable from the next than others. There are transitions between the various forms. The here recognized varieties represent the more distinctive ones, and admittedly specific plants may only with some difficulty be referred unambiguously to a definite variety. The number of varieties accepted is subjective. This is not meant as an excuse for an insufficient treatment but is merely recognition of the complexity of *C. crispatula*.*Cryptocoryne crispatula* s.l. is here interpreted as one species comprising different ecological races, i.e., leaf forms that are adapted to the water supply and the overall topography of the rivers in which they grow. In rivers with more constant water-bearings, and not too steep a fall, the more aquatic ones occur, viz. the long, narrow-leaved forms with an undulate or bullate leaf blade. In rivers with a seasonal variation in the water-bearings, the more amphibious ones occur, characterized by having shorter, ± smooth leaves. The variation within *C. crispatula* is very complex, with more than six recognizable forms in mainland Asia, some more readily distinguishable from the next than others. There are transitions between the various forms. The here recognized varieties represent the more distinctive ones, and admittedly specific plants may only with some difficulty be referred unambiguously to a definite variety. The number of varieties accepted is subjective. This is not meant as an excuse for an insufficient treatment but is merely recognition of the complexity of *C. crispatula*.
  "Statistics": "Rivers,streams; near sea level to 600 m. Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Yunnan [Bangladesh, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Thailand, Vietnam].
**1.旋苞隐棒花**

Cryptocoryne retrospiralis (Roxb.) Fisch. ex Wydler. in Linnaea 5: 428. 1830; Kunth, Enum. Pl: 3: 12. 1841; Wight, Icon. Pl. 3: t. 772. 1843; Engl. in DC., Monogr. Phan. 2: 625. 1879; Hook. f., Fl. Brit. Ind. 6: 493. 1893; Engl. in Engl. , Pflanzenr. 73 (4, 23F): 246, fig. 62. 1920; Gagn. in Lecte. , Fl. Gen. , Indo-Chine 6: 1193. 1942. ——Ambrosinica retrospiralis Roxb., Hort. Beng. 65. 1814, nom. nud, Fl. Ind. 3: 492. 1832 descr.——Cryptocoryne crispatula Engl. in Engl., Pflanzenr. 73 (4, 23F): 247. 1920.

根茎直立或斜伸，粗0.5-1厘米，节间长0.5-1厘米或极短；根茎上部生多数圆柱形肉质根，长4-11厘米。叶多数，丛生，叶柄长1-5厘米，鞘状，膜质，基部展开宽达1厘米，向上略狭；叶片线状披针形，淡绿色，薄，近于透明（干时），长10-30厘米，中部宽0.3-0.9厘米，向两头渐狭，侧脉上升，与中肋相交成极小的锐角，极细弱。花序柄短，长1-2厘米；佛焰苞淡绿带淡红色，管下部含花序部分长1-1.5厘米，粗4-5毫米，上部无花部分长3-10厘米，中部粗仅2毫米；檐部线状披针形，长7-8厘米，宽3-7毫米，螺旋状上升。肉穗花序：雌花序有心皮4-6，绿色，与雄花序的间距约6毫米，雄花序短圆柱状，淡绿色，长约2毫米；附属器极短。子房长圆形，胚珠2列，花柱短，柱头近圆形。合生心皮卵球形，直径约1厘米。花期11月。

产广东从化县，生成于路旁水中。印度、孟加拉、缅甸、老挝和马来半岛均有分布。

本种叶柄长短、叶片宽狭、佛焰苞各部的长短都有很大的变异。
