二叶兰",
47.**Cymbidium rhizomatosum** Z. J. Liu & S. C. Chen J. Wuhan Bot. Res. 20: 421. 2002.",

## Description
Plants terrestrial, autotrophic, with a subterranean rhizome. Rhizome whitish yellow, cylindric, 7-10 × 0.6-1.5 cm, branched, several noded, with small wartlike outgrowths, with several fleshy roots to 9 × 0.8 cm. Leaves 2, basal, emerging after anthesis, narrowly elliptic to elliptic, 6-8 × 1.8-2.5 cm, thinly leathery, contracted into a short petiole-like stalk at base, apex acute; petiole conduplicate or somewhat tubular, ca. 2 cm, articulate. Inflorescence arising from apical node of rhizome, erect, 15-20 cm, slender; peduncle greenish with several green sheaths 1-2.5 cm; rachis (1 or)2- or 3-flowered; floral bracts greenish, narrowly ovate, 9-15 × 5-7 mm. Flowers opening widely; pedicel and ovary 15-25 mm; sepals and petals greenish to whitish, petals with a purplish red longitudinal line at base; lip greenish to whitish with purplish red markings. Dorsal sepal narrowly obovate-elliptic, ca. 27 × 5 mm, apex acute-acuminate; lateral sepals linear-obovate, ca. 25 × 4 mm, apex acute. Lip ovate, ca. 14 × 11 mm, not fused to basal margins of column, obscurely 3-lobed; lateral lobes erect, small; mid-lobe recurved, ovate, ca. 7 × 6 mm; disk with 2 convergent lamellae extending from base of lip to base of mid-lobe. Column 11-13 mm; pollinia 4, in 2 pairs. Capsule erect, narrowly ellipsoid, ca. 35 × 10 mm. Fl. Aug-Sep, fr. Nov-Dec.
  "Reference": "Among the present authors, Cribb observes that this taxon is probably best treated as a variety of the widespread and variable *Cymbidium lancifolium*. It does not differ significantly from *C. lancifolium* var. *papuanum* (a synonym of *C. lancifolium* in the present treatment), which also has long rhizomes, short pseudobulbs, and small leaves. The latter has been found in New Guinea and Thailand. On the other hand, Chen observes that *C. rhizomatosum* is quite different from *C. lancifolium* and differs by its leaves appearing after anthesis.Among the present authors, Cribb observes that this taxon is probably best treated as a variety of the widespread and variable *Cymbidium lancifolium*. It does not differ significantly from *C. lancifolium* var. *papuanum* (a synonym of *C. lancifolium* in the present treatment), which also has long rhizomes, short pseudobulbs, and small leaves. The latter has been found in New Guinea and Thailand. On the other hand, Chen observes that *C. rhizomatosum* is quite different from *C. lancifolium* and differs by its leaves appearing after anthesis.
  "Statistics": "&amp;#9679; SE Yunnan.
