椰香兰",
4.**Cymbidium atropurpureum** (Lindley) Rolfe Orchid Rev. 11: 190. 1903.",

## Description
Plants epiphytic or rarely lithophytic, autotrophic. Pseudobulb ovoid, often weakly inflated, bilaterally flattened, to 10 × 6 cm, enclosed in persistent leaf bases and ca. 4 scarious cataphylls. Leaves usually 7-9, arching, ligulate, to 50-90(-125) × 1.5-4 cm, leathery, rigid, articulate to a broadly sheathing base to 15-20 cm, apex obtuse and unequally bilobed; shortest leaves reduced to cataphylls with an abscission zone near apex and a short blade. Inflorescence arising from within cataphylls, arching or pendulous, 28-75 cm; peduncle 5-16 cm, covered basally by 6-8 overlapping, cymbiform, acute, spreading sheaths to 7 cm; rachis pendulous, pale green, often flushed with purple, 20-55 cm, (7-)10-33-flowered; floral bracts triangular, 1-4 mm. Flowers usually coconut-scented, 3.5-4.5 cm in diam.; pedicel and ovary 15-26 mm, pale green, often flushed with purple; sepals deep maroon to dull yellow-green, strongly stained maroon; lip white, becoming yellow with age, lateral lobes stained maroon-purple, mid-lobe yellow in front of callus ridges and with maroon blotches; callus ridges bright yellow toward apex, stained maroon below; column deep maroon, sometimes paler at apex, anther cap white or pale yellow. Dorsal sepal spreading, suberect, narrowly ligulate-elliptic, 28-33 × 7-10 mm, margin revolute, apex obtuse; lateral sepals pendulous, similar, falcate, oblique. Petals weakly porrect, narrowly elliptic, 25-30 × 7.5-11 mm, margins sometimes revolute, apex obtuse or subacute; lip 21-25 × 13-15 mm when flattened, not fused to basal margins of column, 3-lobed, usually broadest across mid-lobe; lateral lobes erect, much shorter than column, apices obtuse and appearing truncate; mid-lobe weakly recurved, broadly ovate to rhombic, 11-13 × 13-14 mm, margin entire, apex obtuse to emarginate; disk minutely papillose to minutely pubescent (hairs longest on tips of lateral lobes), with a callus of 2 sigmoid raised ridges rounded and confluent at their apices and merging gradually with base of mid-lobe. Column arcuate, 16-18 × ca. 3.5 mm, winged; pollinia 2, triangular, 2-2.5 mm, deeply cleft, borne on a broadly triangular viscidium, tapering to acuminate apices. Fl. Mar-May.
  "Reference": "*Cymbidium atropurpureum* may be a naturalized species in China. The present authors have seen no Chinese specimens in any herbarium; nor have they seen any living plants in the wild, although one of us (Cribb) has seen a photograph by Gloria Siu of a wild plant of *C. atropurpureum* in Hainan. The species was misidentified as *C. bicolor* subsp. *obtusum* (a synonym of *C. mannii* in the present treatment) in S. Y. Ding and J. M. Yin (Ill. Wild Orchids Hainan Island, 36. 2005).*Cymbidium atropurpureum* may be a naturalized species in China. The present authors have seen no Chinese specimens in any herbarium; nor have they seen any living plants in the wild, although one of us (Cribb) has seen a photograph by Gloria Siu of a wild plant of *C. atropurpureum* in Hainan. The species was misidentified as *C. bicolor* subsp. *obtusum* (a synonym of *C. mannii* in the present treatment) in S. Y. Ding and J. M. Yin (Ill. Wild Orchids Hainan Island, 36. 2005).
  "Statistics": "Forks of forest trees, occasionally on rocks, evergreen and riverine forests; sea level to 1200 m. Hainan [Indonesia (Borneo, Java, Sumatra), Malaysia, Philippines, S Thailand, S Vietnam].
  "Synonym": "*Cymbidium pendulum* (Roxburgh) Swartz var. *atropurpureum* Lindley, Gard. Chron. 1854: 287. 1854; *C. atropurpureum* var. *olivaceum* J. J. Smith; *C. finlaysonianum* Wallich ex Lindley var. *atropurpureum* (Lindley) Veitch; *C. pendulum* var. *purpureum* W. Watson.
