夏凤兰",
6.**Cymbidium aestivum** Z. J. Liu & S. C. Chen J. Wuhan Bot. Res. 22: 323. 2004.",

## Description
Plants lithophytic, autotrophic. Pseudobulbs subfusiform, slightly bilaterally flattened, 1.5-2.5 × 1.5-2 cm, enclosed in leaf bases. Leaves 4-8, lorate, 32-36 × 0.8-1.6 cm, papery, with midvein raised abaxially, articulate 3-6 cm from base, apex acuminate. Inflorescence lateral, spreading horizontally or arching; rachis laxly 10-13-flowered; floral bracts lanceolate, 10-15 mm. Flowers not scented, 4-6 cm in diam.; pedicel and ovary 25-35 mm; pedicel elongating in fruit; sepals and petals whitish or yellowish heavily tinged pale purple-brown, dorsal sepal with purple-brown veins; lip dark purple with a yellow-green, triangular-lanceolate patch at center. Dorsal sepal porrect, lanceolate or linear-lanceolate, 42-48 × 8-9 mm, apex acuminate or sharply acute; lateral sepals porrect, slightly narrower and oblique. Petals narrowly oblong-lanceolate, 28-32 × 7-8 mm, apex sharply acute; lip ovate-oblong, 27-30 × 10-12 mm, not fused to basal margins of column, 3-lobed below middle; lateral lobes erect, suborbicular, slightly clasping column; mid-lobe recurved, ovate-oblong, 16-18 × 8-11 mm; disk with 2 glandular-pubescent lamellae extending from base of lip to near base of mid-lobe. Column 13-14 mm; pollinia 2. Fl. Jun-Aug.
  "Reference": "This species is morphologically similar to *Cymbidium dayanum*, differing in its larger flowers more heavily tinged with purple. *Cymbidium dayanum* in Borneo has dark purple flowers. The possibility that it is a polyploid of *C. dayanum*, or a hybrid of it, should be investigated.This species is morphologically similar to *Cymbidium dayanum*, differing in its larger flowers more heavily tinged with purple. *Cymbidium dayanum* in Borneo has dark purple flowers. The possibility that it is a polyploid of *C. dayanum*, or a hybrid of it, should be investigated.
  "Statistics": "&amp;#9679; Mossy rocks in forests along valleys; 1500-1600 m. S Yunnan (Mengla).
