象牙白",
22.**Cymbidium maguanense** F. Y. Liu Acta Bot. Yunnan. 18: 412. 1996.",

## Description
Plants epiphytic, autotrophic. Pseudobulbs subcylindric, 4-10 × 2-2.5 cm, enclosed in leaf bases. Leaves 8 or 9, distichous, lorate, 37-76 × 1.2-2.4 cm, base with narrow membranous margins, articulate, apex acuminate and unequally bilobed. Inflorescences 1 or 2, arising from leaf axils, suberect, 20-45 cm; rachis 2-11(-15)-flowered; floral bracts ovate-triangular, 5-6 mm. Flowers fragrant, not opening widely; pedicel and ovary 20-30 mm; sepals and petals white or pinkish, sometimes tinged purplish on outer surfaces; lip white or pinkish, with a suboblong yellow patch at center of mid-lobe; column purplish to pink. Sepals narrowly oblong-elliptic, 48-60 × 15-20 mm, apex acuminate; lateral sepals slightly oblique. Petals narrowly oblong-lanceolate, 46-52 × 8-12 mm, apex acuminate; lip subobovate or obovate-elliptic, 45-52 × 20-32 mm, base fused to basal margins of column for ca. 5 mm, 3-lobed; lateral lobes erect and loosely embracing column; mid-lobe broadly subovate, 12-13 × 14-18 mm, margin crisped; disk densely pubescent on lateral lobes and at center of mid-lobe, with 2 longitudinal lamellae; lamellae inflated and confluent at their apices, forming a subdeltoid callus at base of mid-lobe. Column slightly arcuate, 36-40 mm. Fl. Oct-Dec.
  "Reference": "Given that this entity is intermediate in morphology between the sympatric species *Cymbidium eburneum* and *C. mastersii*, it may be of hybrid origin. This possibility needs to be explored.Given that this entity is intermediate in morphology between the sympatric species *Cymbidium eburneum* and *C. mastersii*, it may be of hybrid origin. This possibility needs to be explored.
  "Statistics": "&amp;#9679; Trees in forests; 1000-1800 m. SE Yunnan (Maguan, Malipo).
