粉绿白前",
33.**Cynanchum canescens** (Willdenow) K. Schumann",

> Extensive field work is needed to establish the extent of variation in the characters used to separate members of the &lt;I&gt;Cynanchum vincetoxicum&lt;/I&gt; complex, including species 34-37. Two species groups, separated arbitrarily by the presence or absence of corolla hairs, are recognized. The group with hairy corollas includes &lt;I&gt;C. forrestii, C. bicampanulatum&lt;/I&gt;, and &lt;I&gt;C. rockii&lt;/I&gt;. Although most material with glabrous corollas belongs to &lt;I&gt;C. inamoenum&lt;/I&gt;, some collections from widely scattered localities between the Himalayas and Taiwan have been named as &lt;I&gt;C. vincetoxicum&lt;/I&gt;. It is not clear that these are discontinuous with &lt;I&gt;C. inamoenum&lt;/I&gt; and that they represent true &lt;I&gt;C. vincetoxicum&lt;/I&gt;. For the present, all material with glabrous flowers is included in &lt;I&gt;C. inamoenum&lt;/I&gt;.

## Description
Herbs, most parts canescent or puberulent. Rhizomes with dense fascicles of roots. Stems erect, to 50 cm, flexuous, pale or glaucous. Petiole 2-15 mm; leaf blade ovate to oblong, or lanceolate, 2.5-8 &amp;#215; 1.5-5 cm, leathery, base rounded to cordate, apex acuminate or apiculate. Inflorescences usually sessile, umbel-like, pubescent. Pedicel 2-7 mm. Sepals ca. 0.7 &amp;#215; 0.4 mm, puberulent. Corolla yellow or green fading to greenish orange; tube ca. 1 mm; lobes ovate, 2-3 &amp;#215; ca. 1.5 mm, glabrous outside, sparsely hirsute inside, apex subacute. Corona lobes broadly ovate, fleshy, apex rounded, broader than long. Follicles slender, 5-10 cm. Seeds broadly ovate, 5-7 mm, comose. Fl. May-Aug, fr. Aug-Dec. 2&lt;I&gt;n&lt;/I&gt; = 22.

> Open woodland, thickets; ca. 2500 m. Sichuan, Xizang, Yunnan [Afghanistan, Bhutan, India, Kashmir, Nepal, Pakistan, Russia; SW Asia]
  "Synonym": "&lt;I&gt;Asclepias canescens&lt;/I&gt; Willdenow, Ges. Naturf. Freunde Berlin Neue Schriften 3: 418. 1801; &lt;I&gt;Cynanchum glaucum&lt;/I&gt; Wallich ex Wight; &lt;I&gt;Vincetoxicum canescens&lt;/I&gt; (Willdenow) Decaisne; &lt;I&gt;V. glaucum&lt;/I&gt; (Wallich ex Wight) K. H. Rechinger; &lt;I&gt;V. hirundinaria&lt;/I&gt; Medicus subsp. &lt;I&gt;glaucum&lt;/I&gt; (Wallich ex Wight) H. Hara.
