垂果山蚂蝗",
17.**Desmodium strigillosum var. pendenticarpum** (C. Z. Gao & Q. R. Lai) P. H. Huang Bull. Bot. Res., Harbin. 18: 6. 1998.",

## Description
Subshrubs, prostrate or ascending, to 1 m tall. Young branchlets white adpressed villous. Leaves 3-foliolate; petiole 0.7-1.8 cm, villous; leaflet blade elliptic, narrowly elliptic, or obovate-elliptic, 1.7-4 × 1.1-2 cm, abaxially densely white vil-lous, adaxially glabrous, base broadly cuneate or rounded, apex rounded or obtuse. Racemes terminal, 2.5-7.5 cm; rachis vil-lous, densely flowered. Pedicel 2.5-3 mm. Calyx ca. 2 mm. Corolla purple, ca. 6 mm; standard broadly ovate-orbicular or orbicular; wings auriculate at base; keel nearly spatulate, curved. Legume pendent, 0.9-2 cm × ca. 2 mm, adpressed gray-white villous, conferted, lower suture undulate, upper suture straight, 3-8-jointed. Fl. Aug, fr. Oct.
  "Reference": "One of us (Huang) treats this taxon as a variety of *Desmodium strigillosum* on account of the difference in indumentum of the branch-lets, legumes, petioles, and abaxial surface of the leaflets, as well as the difference in corolla color between both taxa. However, one of us (Ohashi) prefers to treat *Desmodium pendenticarpum* as a synonym of *D. strigillosum* (see J. Jap. Bot. 70: 115. 1995).One of us (Huang) treats this taxon as a variety of *Desmodium strigillosum* on account of the difference in indumentum of the branch-lets, legumes, petioles, and abaxial surface of the leaflets, as well as the difference in corolla color between both taxa. However, one of us (Ohashi) prefers to treat *Desmodium pendenticarpum* as a synonym of *D. strigillosum* (see J. Jap. Bot. 70: 115. 1995).
  "Statistics": "● Mountain slopes; ca. 100 m. S Guangxi.
  "Synonym": "*Desmodium pendenticarpum* C. Z. Gao &amp; Q. R. Lai, Bull. Bot. Res., Harbin 9(4): 41. 1989.
