红冠川木香",
12.**Dolomiaea lateritia** C. Shih Acta Phytotax. Sin. 32: 190. 1994.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, stemless. Rosette leaves petiolate; petiole ca. 5 cm; leaf blade elliptic, 9-24 × 5-8 cm, bipinnately lobed to bipinnately divided, abaxially grayish white and densely tomentose, adaxially green and glabrous; primary lobes ca. 8 pairs, narrowly ovate to elliptic; secondary lobes triangular, narrowly triangular, or ovate, margin spinulose-denticulate. Capitula ca. 8, clustered in center of leaf rosette, forming a hemispheric synflorescence, shortly pedunculate. Involucre campanulate, ca. 2.5 cm in diam. Phyllaries in ca. 6 rows, dark red, leathery, glabrous, apex acuminate; outer phyllaries narrowly ovate-triangular, ca. 10 × 2 mm; middle phyllaries narrowly triangular, 1.5-2.5 × 0.5-0.6 cm; inner phyllaries narrowly ovate-elliptic to elliptic, 2.3-3.5 × 0.6-0.7 cm. Corolla purplish red, ca. 3 cm, tube ca. 2.2 cm, limb 8-10 mm, lobes 4-5 mm. Style branches linear, narrowed, divergent. Achene (ripe) unknown. Pappus bristles in many rows, brownish in basal half and brick-colored in apical half, scabrid, ca. 1.8 cm. Fl. Sep.
  "Reference": "*Dolomiaea lateritia* is only known from the type collection. Except for the divergent and narrowed style branches and for the pappus color, this species is very similar to *D. calophylla* and *D. macrocephala*. Lack of material does not permit a decision here about whether these plants are conspecific or not.*Dolomiaea lateritia* is only known from the type collection. Except for the divergent and narrowed style branches and for the pappus color, this species is very similar to *D. calophylla* and *D. macrocephala*. Lack of material does not permit a decision here about whether these plants are conspecific or not.
  "Statistics": "● Alpine meadows, thickets; ca. 3400 m. S Xizang (Gyirong).
