奥氏葶苈",
38.**Draba olgae** Regel & Schmalhausen",

> &lt;I&gt;Draba olgae&lt;/I&gt; was recorded from China by Tolmachev and Junussov (Fl. Tajik. 5: 196. 1978), based on A. Regel s.n., 12 July 1879 (LE), collected from Gulja (now Yining), Xinjiang. The species was not included in FRPS or Fl. Xinjiang. (vol. 2(2). 1995).

## Description
Herbs perennial, 3-15(-20) cm tall, loosely cespitose, scapose. Caudex few branched, ultimate branches terminated in rosettes and covered with leaf remains of previous years. Stems erect, simple, lowermost part sparsely pubescent with stellate or simple and forked trichomes, glabrous elsewhere or throughout. Basal leaves rosulate, persistent; petiole 1-4 mm, ciliate with simple trichomes; leaf blade oblong-obovate, oblanceolate, oblong, or lanceolate, (0.4-)0.7-1.5(-2.5) cm × 1.5-3(-6) mm, abaxially moderately to densely hirsute with simple, 3-5-rayed stellate trichomes 1 or 2 rays of which sometimes with a lateral branch, these sometimes mixed with fewer simple trichomes, adaxially with primarily simple trichomes sometimes mixed with smaller, fewer stellate ones, margin ciliate with setose or subsetose trichomes to 1 mm, base cuneate to rarely attenuate, margin entire or rarely 1- or 2-toothed, apex obtuse to acute. Cauline leaves absent. Racemes (6-)10-25(-35)-flowered, ebracteate, elongated considerably in fruit. Fruiting pedicels 5-12 mm, divaricate to ascending, straight, glabrous. Sepals oblong-ovate, 2-3 × 1-1.5 mm, erect, glabrous or abaxially sparsely pubescent with simple and forked trichomes, base of lateral pair not saccate, margin narrowly membranous. Petals pale yellow, turning whitish, broadly obovate, (4-)5-7 × 2-3.5 mm, apex subemarginate; claw ca. 1 mm. Filaments 2-2.5; anthers ovate-cordate, 0.3-0.4 mm. Ovules 10-16 per ovary. Fruit elliptic to lanceolate-elliptic, (3-)4.5-8 × (1.5-)2-3 mm, not inflated, latiseptate, not twisted; valves puberulent with simple trichomes sometimes mixed with much fewer forked ones, not veined, base and apex acute; style 0.5-1 mm. Seeds brown, ovate, 1-1.3 × 0.7-0.9 mm. Fl. Jun-Jul, fr. Jul-Aug.

> Stony slopes and meadows of alpine areas; 2900-3800 m. Xinjiang [Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Tajikistan].
  "Synonym": "&lt;I&gt;Draba olgae&lt;/I&gt; var. &lt;I&gt;chitralensis&lt;/I&gt; O. E. Schulz; &lt;I&gt;D. pakistanica&lt;/I&gt; Jafri.
