芽孢鳞毛蕨",
109.**Dryopteris gemmifera** S. Y. Dong Bot. Stud. (Taipei). 51: 537. 2010.",

## Description
Rhizomes erect, short, with copious scales at apex; scales blackish, narrowly lanceolate, 3-6 × ca. 0.5 mm, entire at margin but with several short hairlike branches at base. Fronds tufted; stipes dark brown at base and stramineous upward, slender, 15-25 cm, with many blackish lanceolate scales at base and some minute fibrilliform scalelike hairs or scales on upper part of stipe and rachis; lamina ovate to deltoid-ovate, simple pinnate to deeply bipinnatifid at base, gradually narrowed and pinnatifid toward apex; free lateral pinnae 6-8 pairs, alternate or occasionally lowest pair opposite, 2 or 3 pairs of lower pinnae nearly equal in size, 8-10 × 2.2-3 cm, upper pinnae gradually shortened; pinnae lanceolate, base broadly cuneate, shortly stalked (1-3 mm) to sessile, margin crenate to deeply lobed, apex acuminate; large pinnae with 8-10 pinnules on each side of costa, basiscopic pinnules only slightly longer than acroscopic ones, nearly oblong, oblique to costa, 1-2 × 0.5-0.6 cm, sparsely and slightly serrate at margin, obtuse at apex. Veins 5 or 6 pairs per pinnule, simple or 1 or 2 times forked. Lamina papery, reddish when young but green when mature; rachis covered with many brown scales, or with blackish scales when young, with 1 or 2 scaly buds on abaxial side at upper part; costa abaxially with scales, some broadened and with several slender branches at base, flat or slightly convex, costae adaxially with similar scalelike hairs and a few uniseriate hairs at base. Sori orbicular, medial or subterminal on veins, 3-5 pairs on each pinnule; indusia brown, orbicular-reniform, thick and firm, curling when old, persistent.

> ● Tropical mountain rain forests; 1000-1400 m. Hainan.
