峨眉厚喙菊",
4.**Dubyaea emeiensis** C. Shih Acta Phytotax. Sin. 33: 191. 1995.",

## Description
Herbs to 13 cm tall, perennial. Stem erect, apically branched, purplish red and glabrous below middle, pale green and densely hispid with stiff yellowish brown hairs above middle, leafy. Lower and middle stem leaves oblanceolate to elliptic, 5-9 × 2-3 cm, thick, glabrous, abaxially dark purple, base cuneate-attenuate and tapering into a narrow or petiole-like portion, margin dentate, apex acute to acuminate. Upper stem leaves subopposite, sessile, lanceolate, 5-6 × 2-3 cm, base rounded to cuneate, otherwise like middle stem leaves; uppermost leaves reduced in size to broadly linear acuminate bracts. Synflorescence umbelliform, with ca. 7 capitula each with a peduncle of equal length. Capitula with 20-25 florets; peduncle ± thickened, with stiff brown hispid hairs. Involucre narrowly campanulate, 1.3-1.5 × ca. 0.8 cm. Phyllaries abaxially blackish green and with stiff brown hairs on midvein; outer phyllaries triangular to lanceolate, longest ca. 4.5 × 1.2 mm, apex acute; inner phyllaries with apex obtuse to rounded. Florets yellow. Achene brown, ca. 5 mm, with ca. 14 unequal ribs. Pappus yellowish, ca. 7 mm. Fl. and fr. Jul.
  "Reference": "*Dubyaea emeiensis* is a poorly known species only known from the type collection from Emei Shan.*Dubyaea emeiensis* is a poorly known species only known from the type collection from Emei Shan.
  "Statistics": "● Forests; ca. 2500 m. Sichuan (Emei Shan).
