刚毛厚喙菊",
3.**Dubyaea blinii** (H. Léveillé) N. Kilian Fl. China. 20-21: 336. 2011.",

## Description
Herbs 15-35 cm tall, perennial, ± rosulate. Caudex strong, with residues of old leaf bases, brown lanate in leaf axils. Stem erect or curved-erect, usually branched apically, densely setose with brownish to purplish spreading hairs, moderately leafy. Rosette leaves (present or not at anthesis) and lower stem leaves oblanceolate to elliptic, 7-18 × 1.5-4 cm, undivided and coarsely sinuate-dentate or runcinate-dentate to pinnatifid, abaxially densely and adaxially sparsely setose with brownish to purplish spreading hairs, base attenuate into a cuneately winged petiole-like portion and semiamplexicaul, margin sinuate-dentate, apex acute to acuminate; lateral lobes triangular, ± retrorse, apex acute. Middle and upper stem leaves similar to lower leaves but smaller, base without a petiole-like portion but semiamplexicaul. Synflorescence densely corymbiform, with 10-20 capitula. Capitula erect, with 9-13 florets; peduncle 2-8 mm, densely setose with brownish to purplish spreading hairs. Involucre cylindric, 1-1.1 cm. Phyllaries abaxially brownish to purplish setose along midvein; outer phyllaries triangular to lanceolate, longest 2.5-3 mm, apex acute; inner phyllaries ca. 8, with thin scarious margin, apex acute. Florets yellow. Achene pale brown, 4.5-5.5 mm, with ca. 12 unequal ribs, glabrous, apex truncate. Pappus pale brown, 5-7 mm. Fl and fr. Jul-Oct.
  "Reference": "*Dubyaea blinii* has been considered as a species of *Youngia* since its inclusion by Babcock and Stebbins (Univ. Calif. Publ. Bot. 18: 227-229. 1943, as *Y. setigera*) in that genus. Examination of the type material, however, revealed that it is grossly misplaced in *Youngia*, from which it differs by the indumentum of leaves, stems, and phyllaries, and its achene and pappus features, but conveniently fits into *Dubyaea*, where it may perhaps be more closely related to *D. jinyangensis*.*Dubyaea blinii* has been considered as a species of *Youngia* since its inclusion by Babcock and Stebbins (Univ. Calif. Publ. Bot. 18: 227-229. 1943, as *Y. setigera*) in that genus. Examination of the type material, however, revealed that it is grossly misplaced in *Youngia*, from which it differs by the indumentum of leaves, stems, and phyllaries, and its achene and pappus features, but conveniently fits into *Dubyaea*, where it may perhaps be more closely related to *D. jinyangensis*.
  "Statistics": "● Mountain pastures, open grassy slopes; ca. 2600 m. W Sichuan, SW Yunnan.
  "Synonym": "Basionym: *Crepis blinii* H. Léveillé, Repert. Spec. Nov. Regni Veg. 13: 345. 1914; *C. setigera* J. Scott; *Faberia blinii* (H. Léveillé) H. Léveillé; *Youngia blinii* (H. Léveillé) Lauener; *Y. setigera* (J. Scott) Babcock &amp; Stebbins.
  "frpsdesc": "",
