球果杜英",
2.**Elaeocarpus hayatae** Kanehira & Sasaki",

> This species was originally described as having a 3-loculed ovary. In Kanehira (Formos. Trees, Rev. Ed. t. 388, G &amp; I. 1936), the cross-section of the ovary is illustrated clearly as 3-loculed but the cross-section of the fruit is 5-loculed with 4 locules degenerating. Examination of type materials by C. E. Chang (Fl. Taiwan 3: pl. 776 (1, 4). 1977) revealed that the ovary and fruit are 4- or 5-loculed. In the infrageneric system of *Elaeocarpus* (Tang, Acta Phytotax. Sin. 30: 385-404. 1992), species with a 5-loculed ovary and fruit belong to *E.* sect. *Ganitrus* (Gaertner) Masters but species with a 2- or 3-loculed ovary and 1-loculed fruit belong to *E.* sect. *Elaeocarpus*. Because its ovary is 4- or 5-loculed, *E. hayatae* is certainly not a member of *E.* sect. *Elaeocarpus* but rather a member of *E.* sect. *Ganitrus*.&lt;p&gt;&lt;p&gt;This species differs from *Elaeocarpus angustifolius* in a number of characters, including branchlets, petioles, and abaxial leaf blade surfaces glabrous (vs. villous), leaf blades slightly smaller (8-15 × 3-6 cm vs. 9-14 × 3-4.5 cm), lateral veins fewer (6-9 vs. 10-13), veins and veinlets distinctly (vs. poorly) anastomosing, sepals adaxially glabrous (vs. villous), petal lobes 12-15 (vs. 15-25), and ovary and fruit 4- or 5-loculed (vs. 5-loculed). In view of these differences, we prefer to treat it as a distinct species rather than as a variety. In addition, up-to-date records of geographical distribution indicate that they are allopatric.&lt;p&gt;&lt;p&gt;Because its leaves look similar to *Elaeocarpus decipiens* and *E. sylvestris*, *E. hayatae* sometimes has been treated as a synonym of these; however, as noted above, *E. hayatae* is in a separate section. The discovery of both 4- and 5-loculed ovaries and fruit might be important in the study of evolution of this genus. *Elaeocarpus hayatae* is distributed in the periphery of the section and the reduction in locules of ovary and fruit might be derived.

## Description
Trees evergreen. Branchlets glabrous. Leaves irregularly whorled; petiole 1.2-2 cm; leaf blade oblong or lanceolate to oblanceolate, 8-15 × 3-6 cm, papery, glabrous, lateral veins 6-9 per side, veinlets reticulate, base cuneate or obtuse, margin minutely serrate, apex shortly acuminate or obtuse. Racemes in axils of current and fallen leaves, 4-6 cm, laxly flowered; peduncles sparsely pubescent. Pedicel 3-6 mm, slender, puberulent. Sepals 5, lanceolate, 5-6 mm, abaxially depressed pubescent, adaxially glabrous, apex acute. Petals 5, obovate, 6-7 mm, slightly pubescent at base, especially along margin, apex laciniate; lobes 12-15. Stamens ca. 30; anthers linear, puberulent, with a tuft of hairs at apices. Ovary ovoid, villous, 4- or 5-loculed. Drupe subglobose, ca. 2 × 1.5 cm; endocarp strongly tuberculate, very hard. Fl. unknown, fr. Sep.

> ●  Evergreen forests. S Taiwan.
  "Synonym": "*Elaeocarpus sphaericus* (Gaertner) Schumann var. *hayatae* (Kanehira &amp; Sasaki) C. E. Chang; *E. sylvestris* (Loureiro) Poiret var. *hayatae* (Kanehira &amp; Sasaki) Y. C. Liu.
