牛毛毡",
10.**Eleocharis yokoscensis** (Franchet & Savatier) Tang & F. T. Wang Fl. Reipubl. Popularis Sin. 11: 54. 1961.",

## Description
Perennials. Stolons slender. Culms densely tufted, 2-12 cm tall, filiform. Leaf sheaths reddish, tubular, 0.5-1.5 cm. Spikelet pale purple, ovoid, ca. 3 × 2 mm, few flowered, apex obtuse. Glumes laxly imbricate, subdistichous at base of spikelet; basalmost glume empty, oblong, ca. 2 × 1 mm, 3-veined, amplexicaul for whole spikelet base, apex obtuse; fertile glumes greenish medially and purple on sides, ovate, ca. 1.8 × 1.2 mm, membranous, margin hyaline, apex acute. Perianth bristles 1-4, ca. 2 × as long as nutlet, retrorsely spinulose. Stigmas 3. Nutlet pale yellow, narrowly oblong, ca. 1 × 0.4-0.5 mm, obscurely 3-sided, longitudinally ridged, ridges separated by numerous cross-walls (trabeculae), apex contracted; persistent style base slightly inflated, conic, base ca. 1/3 as wide as nutlet. Fl. and fr. Apr-Nov.
  "Reference": "J. Kern (Fl. Males., Ser. 1, Spermat. 7(3): 535. 1974) included *Eleocharis yokoscensis* within the circumscription of *E. acicularis* (Linnaeus) Roemer &amp; Schultes as a synonym of *E. acicularis* var. *longiseta*, but we have observed and compared the characters of *E. yokoscensis* and *E. acicularis* and find they differ distinctly in characteristics of the nutlet and perianth bristles. The nutlet of the former has few transverse trabeculae (cross-walls) on the surface, the style base is ± long and narrow, and the perianth bristles are ca. 2 × as long as the nutlet. The nutlet of the latter has many transverse trabeculae on the surface, the style base is ± short and broad, and the perianth bristles are shorter than or as long as the nutlet, rarely slightly exceeding the nutlet.J. Kern (Fl. Males., Ser. 1, Spermat. 7(3): 535. 1974) included *Eleocharis yokoscensis* within the circumscription of *E. acicularis* (Linnaeus) Roemer &amp; Schultes as a synonym of *E. acicularis* var. *longiseta*, but we have observed and compared the characters of *E. yokoscensis* and *E. acicularis* and find they differ distinctly in characteristics of the nutlet and perianth bristles. The nutlet of the former has few transverse trabeculae (cross-walls) on the surface, the style base is ± long and narrow, and the perianth bristles are ca. 2 × as long as the nutlet. The nutlet of the latter has many transverse trabeculae on the surface, the style base is ± short and broad, and the perianth bristles are shorter than or as long as the nutlet, rarely slightly exceeding the nutlet.
  "Statistics": "Flooded fields, pond margins, moist and muddy soil; 300-3000 m. Anhui, Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hebei, Heilongjiang, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning, Shaanxi, Shandong, Shanxi, Sichuan, Taiwan, N Xinjiang, Yunnan, Zhejiang [India, Indonesia (Sumatra), Japan, Korea, Mongolia, Myanmar, Philippines, Russia (Far East), Vietnam].
  "Synonym": "*Scirpus yokoscensis* Franchet &amp; Savatier, Enum. Pl. Jap. 2: 543. 1878 [*\"yokoscencis\"*]; *Eleocharis acicularis* (Linnaeus) Roemer &amp; Schultes var. *longiseta* Svenson; *E. acicularis* subsp. *yokoscensis* (Franchet &amp; Savatier) T. V. Egorova; *E. svensonii* G. Zinserling.
