鼠毛菊",
2.**Epilasia hemilasia** (Bunge) C. B. Clarke ex Kuntze Trudy Imp. S.-Peterburgsk. Bot. Sada. 10: 202. 1887.",

## Description
Herbs usually 5-50 cm tall, annual. Stem ascending to erect, unbranched or moderately branched often already from base, arachnoid hairy, glabrescent, basally densely and higher up distantly leafy. Leaves narrowly spatulate or narrowly lanceolate to linear-lanceolate, 2-9 × 0.3-1.5 cm, ± arachnoid hairy, base attenuate and finally semiamplexicaul, margin densely microdentate, apex acute to acuminate. Synflorescence diffuse, paniculiform to corymbiform, with several capitula or more rarely capitulum solitary. Involucre ovoid-cylindric to globose, 1.2-1.4 × 0.8-1 cm at anthesis, 1.5-1.7 × ca. 1.5 cm in fruit (outer phyllaries not counted). Outer phyllaries lanceolate, usually 2-4 cm, herbaceous and similar to upper stem leaves, distinctly longer than inner phyllaries, apex acuminate; inner phyllaries lanceolate, leathery, margin somewhat scarious, apex obtuse to acute. Florets pale yellow, slightly longer than involucre. Achene blackish, cylindric, 6-7 mm, with hollow ± cylindric 1-2 mm carpophore, body in lower half with 10 pale narrow raised often somewhat spinulose ribs, upper half covered and hidden by conic caplike pappus disk and pappus. Pappus gray, 8-10 mm. Fl. and fr. Apr-May. 2*n* = 12, 24.
  "Reference": "The unique achene of *Epilasia hemilasia* is interpreted here through a modification of the pappus disk. Normally the pappus disk is a ± flat disklike (or because of its central opening for the vascular strands connecting achene and floret actually rather ringlike) structure bearing the pappus bristles and crowning the achene apex. In this species, the pappus disk is modified to a caplike structure covering the equally fertile apical half of the achene. This interpretation is supported by the fact that the outer series of plumose pappus bristles arises from the callose ringlike structure in the middle third of the achene (morphologically indistinguishable from the outer series of bristles on the pappus disk of *E. acrolasia*), while other bristles are basally shortly adnate to and then arise from the unribbed, pale brown surface between the callose ring and the achene apex, and the innermost series of ca. 5 bristles arises at the achene apex. The trichomes covering the surface between the bristles are considered as homologues to those at the base of the bristles in *E. acrolasia* and to the soft fimbriae of the plumose *Scorzonerinae* pappus in general.The unique achene of *Epilasia hemilasia* is interpreted here through a modification of the pappus disk. Normally the pappus disk is a ± flat disklike (or because of its central opening for the vascular strands connecting achene and floret actually rather ringlike) structure bearing the pappus bristles and crowning the achene apex. In this species, the pappus disk is modified to a caplike structure covering the equally fertile apical half of the achene. This interpretation is supported by the fact that the outer series of plumose pappus bristles arises from the callose ringlike structure in the middle third of the achene (morphologically indistinguishable from the outer series of bristles on the pappus disk of *E. acrolasia*), while other bristles are basally shortly adnate to and then arise from the unribbed, pale brown surface between the callose ring and the achene apex, and the innermost series of ca. 5 bristles arises at the achene apex. The trichomes covering the surface between the bristles are considered as homologues to those at the base of the bristles in *E. acrolasia* and to the soft fimbriae of the plumose *Scorzonerinae* pappus in general.
  "Statistics": "Sand or clay areas, grasslands; 800-1500 m. Xinjiang [Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan; SW Asia].
  "Synonym": "*Scorzonera hemilasia* Bunge, Beitr. Fl. Russl. 201. 1852; *Epilasia cenopleura* (Bunge) C. B. Clarke ex Soják; *E. hemilasia* var. *nana* (Boissier &amp; Buhse) Kuntze; *E. intermedia* (Bunge) C. B. Clarke ex Soják; *S. cenopleura* Bunge; *S. in**termedia* Bunge; *S. nana* Boissier &amp; Buhse.
**2.鼠毛菊 腰毛果，环子苣，腰毛鼠毛菊 图版10: 3**

Epilasia hemilasia (Bunge) C. B. Clarke, Comp. Ind. 279. 1876; Kuntze in Act. Hort. Petrop. 10 (1): 202. 1887. p. p.; Lipsch., Fragm. Monogr. Gen. Scorzonera 2: 31. 1939 et in Fl. URSS 29: 114. 1964; 中国高等植物图鉴4: 677, 图6767, 1975.——Scorzonera hemilasia Bunge Beitr. z. Kenntn. Fl. Russl. u. Stepp. Centr. -As. 201. 1851 et in Mem. Acad. Sc. Petersb. div. sav. 7: 377. 1854; Boiss., Fl. Or. 3: 781. 1875. ——S. cenopleura Bunge, op. cit. 202. 1851 et op. cit. 378. 1854; Boiss., Fl. Or. 3: 782. 1875. ——Epilasia cenopleura (Bunge) C. B. Clarke, op. cit. 279. 1876. ——E. cenoplura (Bunge) Sojdk in Nov. Bot. Hort. Bot. Univ. Prag. 49. 1962. ——Scorzonra intermedia Bunge, op. cit. 201-202. 1851 et op. cit. 377—378. 1854. ——Epilasia intermedia (Bunge) C. B. Clarke op. cit. 279. 1876. ——E. intermedia (Bunge) Sojak op. cit. 49. 1962.——E. bungeana C. B. Clarke op. cit. 279. 1876. ——Scorzonera nana Boiss. et Buhse in Nouv. Mem. Soc. Nat. Mosc. 12: 138. 1860; Boiss. Fl. Or. 3: 782. 1875. ——Epilasia hemilasia (Bunge) C. B. Clarke var. nana (Boiss. et Buhse) Kuntze, op. cit. 202. 1887. in adnot.

一年生草本，高5-50厘米。茎单生或2-5个簇生，分枝或不分枝，全部茎枝被短柔毛或几无毛。基生叶线状披针形或长椭圆状卵形，基部渐狭成叶柄，茎生叶披针形或线状披针形，下部的茎生叶有长柄，上部的茎生叶无叶柄，全部叶两面粗涩，边缘有微锯齿，叶脉明显，稍突起。头状花序稍多数，生茎枝顶端，极少单生茎顶。总苞卵状圆柱形；总苞片2层，外层草质，不等长，下部宽，顶端渐尖，多少弯曲，外面被短柔毛或无毛，内层坚硬，革质，边缘稍膜质，顶端钝。边缘舌状小花超出总苞，心花较短小，全部舌状小花黄色。瘦果基部有中空的果柄，有多数坚硬的纵肋，沿肋有倒向软刺毛，在瘦果中部有1加厚的胼胝体环，自环以上或自环开始被深灰色或污灰色的长而密厚的绒毛，绒毛与冠毛相粘连。冠毛鼠灰色，稠密，长羽毛状，其中5（或多于5)根易脆折，先端细锯齿状。花果期4-5月。

分布新疆北部。生于沙地、粘土地或草地。哈萨克斯坦、乌兹别克斯坦、伊朗、阿富汗有分布。模式标本采自中亚地区。
