瑞丽茜树",
2.**Fosbergia shweliensis** (J. Anthony) Tirvengadum & Sastre Biogeographica (Paris). 73(2): 88. 1997.",

## Description
Trees, 8-20 m tall; branches angled to terete, strigillose becoming glabrescent. Petiole 5-10 mm, sparsely strigillose to glabrous; leaf blade drying papery, elliptic to oblong-elliptic, lanceolate-oblong, or oblanceolate, 9.5-15 × 2-4.5 cm, adaxially glabrous, abaxially sparsely strigillose or strigose along principal veins, base cuneate to acute and sometimes slightly inequilateral, apex shortly acuminate to acuminate; secondary veins 8-11 pairs, usually with pilosulous domatia in abaxial axils; stipules triangular to ovate, 5-10 mm, keeled or with ridges in upside-down-Y pattern, strigillose, slenderly acute, sometimes with 1 or 2 aristae 1-3 mm. Inflorescences 2-10-flowered, strigillose to strigose or glabrescent; peduncle 1-1.5 cm; bracts linear-lanceolate, 2-4 mm, aristate; pedicels 6-18 mm. Calyx glabrous; ovary portion obovoid to ellipsoid, 3-4 mm; limb 8-13 mm, inside villosulous to tomentulose, lobed for ca. 1/3; lobes triangular to linear-lanceolate, acute and terminating in arista 1-2 mm. Corolla creamy white to pale green or pale yellow, outside glabrous; tube 20-25 mm, inside tomentose; lobes lanceolate, 15-26 mm, acuminate to subaristate, marginally hyaline. Fruiting peduncle to 3.5 m. Berry subglobose to ellipsoid, ca. 11 × 9 cm, smooth; seeds ovoid to oblong-angular, ca. 12 × 7 mm. Fl. May-Jun, fr. May.
  "Reference": "Li et al. (Acta Phytotax. Sin. 44: 707-711. 2006) illustrated this species in their figure 1 and reported that the flower buds are formed nearly a year before the flowers open and that the fruit may take two years to mature. They also detailed errors in the localities of Chinese specimens given by Tirgengadum and Sastre in their protologue and excluded one of the specimens treated by them, *C. W. Wang 78281* (A), which they included instead in *Fosbergia thailandica*. Additionally, they reported that the Gaoligong Shan population of this species does not appear to be reproducing itself, although they stop short of considering this a species of conservation concern.Li et al. (Acta Phytotax. Sin. 44: 707-711. 2006) illustrated this species in their figure 1 and reported that the flower buds are formed nearly a year before the flowers open and that the fruit may take two years to mature. They also detailed errors in the localities of Chinese specimens given by Tirgengadum and Sastre in their protologue and excluded one of the specimens treated by them, *C. W. Wang 78281* (A), which they included instead in *Fosbergia thailandica*. Additionally, they reported that the Gaoligong Shan population of this species does not appear to be reproducing itself, although they stop short of considering this a species of conservation concern.
  "Statistics": "● Open thickets or sparse moist primary broad-leaved forests in valleys; 1100-2200 m. W Yunnan.
  "Synonym": "*Randia shweliensis* J. Anthony, Notes Roy. Bot. Gard. Edinburgh 18: 205. 1934; *Aidia shweliensis* (J. Anthony) W. C. Chen.
**2. 瑞丽茜树（云南种子植物名录）**

Aidia shweliensis (Anth.) W. C. Chen, comb. nov. ——Randia shweliensis Anth. in Not. Roy. Bot. Gard. Edinb. 18: 205. 1934; 云南种子植物名录, 下册: 1270. 1984.

灌木，高达10米；小枝无刺，淡褐色，当年生的小枝被长柔毛，越年生枝近无毛。叶椭圆形或长圆状披针形，长达12厘米，宽4厘米，顶端短渐尖，基部楔形，上面无毛，下面在脉上被柔毛；叶柄长约5毫米；托叶三角形，短尖。聚伞花序腋生，被柔毛；花肉质；花梗粗壮，长6毫米；花萼杯形，长7毫米，顶部5裂，裂片三角形，短尖，长5毫米，宽2.5毫米，外面无毛，内面被长柔毛；花冠白色，冠管狭，圆筒形，长2厘米，花冠裂片开展，长1.5厘米，宽5毫米；花丝短，花药长8毫米；子房2室，具多数胚珠，花柱稍厚，长2厘米，柱头棒状，2裂。花期6月。

产于云南西部；生于海拔1800-2000米处的山谷溪边疏林中。模式标本采自云南瑞丽至怒江分水岭。

标本未见。
