山露兜",
1.**Freycinetia formosana** Hemsley Bull. Misc. Inform. Kew. 1896: 166. 1896.",

## Description
Lianas, scandent or scrambling. Stems procumbent or prostrate, to 10 m or longer. Branches with aerial roots, 0.5-5 cm wide, glabrous. Leaves elongate, linear-lanceolate, 10-60(-200) × 0.8-4 cm, leathery, base narrowed, margin sharply antrorsely spinulose toward tip and base, sometimes entire in upper part, with scattered spines along midvein abaxially, apex acuminate. Spadices 2-4, racemose, on stout peduncle ca. 5 cm; spathes yellow. Female peduncles 10-15 × 1.4-1.8 cm; spathes to 6 cm. Fruit syncarpous, globose, cylindric, or ovoid, 2.5-11 × 1.5-2 cm, composed of numerous dense drupes; drupes ovoid or irregularly angled with asymmetric edges, 0.5-1 × 0.4-1 cm. Seed cylindric.
  "Reference": "Stone (Blumea 16: 369. 1968) observed that the Philippine taxon *Freycinetia batanensis* is a \"mere\" variety, \"if not in fact synonym,\" of *F. formosana*, and that *F. batanensis* differs from the Philippine taxon *F. williamsii* Merrill in having a berry non-rostrate instead of rostrate. H. L. Li (Fl. Taiwan 5: 821. 1978) and other workers have recognized both *F. formosana* and *F. williamsii* as occurring in Taiwan, with *F. batanensis* included in the synonymy of *F. williamsii*, whereas we follow Stone in considering *F. batanensis* to be a synonym of *F. formosana*. According to Fl. Taiwan (loc. cit.) and FRPS (8: 13-14. 1992), *F. formosana* has leaves 60-90 × 2-3 cm and globose syncarps, whereas *F. williamsii* is smaller, with leaves 10-20 × 0.8-1.2 cm and with ovoid syncarps.Stone (Blumea 16: 369. 1968) observed that the Philippine taxon *Freycinetia batanensis* is a \"mere\" variety, \"if not in fact synonym,\" of *F. formosana*, and that *F. batanensis* differs from the Philippine taxon *F. williamsii* Merrill in having a berry non-rostrate instead of rostrate. H. L. Li (Fl. Taiwan 5: 821. 1978) and other workers have recognized both *F. formosana* and *F. williamsii* as occurring in Taiwan, with *F. batanensis* included in the synonymy of *F. williamsii*, whereas we follow Stone in considering *F. batanensis* to be a synonym of *F. formosana*. According to Fl. Taiwan (loc. cit.) and FRPS (8: 13-14. 1992), *F. formosana* has leaves 60-90 × 2-3 cm and globose syncarps, whereas *F. williamsii* is smaller, with leaves 10-20 × 0.8-1.2 cm and with ovoid syncarps.
  "Statistics": "Thickets and cliffs near seashores. Taiwan [Japan (Ryukyu Islands), Philippines (Batan Island)].
  "Synonym": "*Freycinetia batanensis* Martelli.
**1. 山露兜（台湾植物志）**

Freycinetia formosana Hemsl. in Kew Bull. 1896: 166. 896; Warb. in Engl. Pflanzenr. 3 (IV 9): 41. 1900; C. H. Wright in Journ. Linn. Soc. Bot 36: 171. 1903;台湾植物志5: 819. 1978. ——F. formosana Hemsl. f. typica Kimura in Jap. Journ. Bot. 17: 161. 1941.

平卧的攀援植物，攀援高度约10米。枝粗2-3厘米，具气根。叶硬革质，条状披针形，长约60厘米，有时达1-2米，宽2-3厘米，先端长，渐尖，基部狭，边缘有向上的尖锐锯齿，背面沿中脉疏生刺。肉穗花序2-4枚呈总状排列，生于长约5厘米的粗壮花序梗上；佛焰苞黄色。聚花果圆柱形，长8-11厘米，直径1.5-2厘米，由多数密集的浆果状核果组成，每一核果宽约1厘米，具不对称的棱角。

产我国台湾近海滨的北部岛屿。
