五叶拉拉藤",
6.**Galium blinii** H. Léveillé Bull. Acad. Int. Géogr. Bot. 25: 48. 1915.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, weak to climbing, trailing, or matted. Stems usually much branched, 20-70 cm, 4-angled, retrorsely aculeolate to glabrescent. Middle stem leaves in whorls of 6-8, subsessile; blade drying papery or leathery, often blackening, linear-oblong to broadly (ob)lanceolate, (5-)10-22(-30) × (1-)2-4.5(-5.5) mm, adaxially and particularly abaxially ± rough, base acute to cuneate, margin flat to thinly revolute, densely retrorsely aculeolate, ± gradually narrowed into acute apex; vein 1. Inflorescences with terminal and axillary, several-flowered cymes 2-5 cm; axes ± glabrous, often slightly divaricate, with small bracts on lower branches only; pedicels (0.2-)1-3(-5) mm. Ovary obovoid, 0.2-0.3 mm, glabrous or with undeveloped trichomes. Corolla red to purple or violet (only very rarely white), rotate, 1.5-2.5(-3) mm in diam., glabrous; lobes 4, triangular-ovate, acute. Mericarps ovoid, 1-2 mm, glabrous, smooth to verrucose, or sometimes with appressed or spreading uncinate trichomes. Fl. Jun-Sep, fr. Jul-Oct.
  "Reference": "*Galium blinii* is a critical taxon that belongs to the lower elevation subgroup (1) of the *G. asperifolium* group (see there). It was considered a synonym of *G. asperifolium* var. *sikkimense* by Cufodontis (Oesterr. Bot. Z. 89: 241. 1940), Lauener and Ferguson (Notes Roy. Bot. Gard. Edinburgh 32: 106. 1973), and W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(2): 273. 1999). Only Mill (Edinburgh J. Bot. 53: 204. 1996) commented on its reddish purple flowers and other differential characters, regarded it as a distinct species, and proposed to use its old but so far neglected name. Up to now, specimens of this rather widespread taxon were named as *G. asperifolium* var. *sikkimense*, *G. pseudoasprellum* var. *densiflorum*, etc. Analyses of a considerable number of relevant specimens from PE, KUN, and WU support Mill’s interpretation and led to the above, more elaborate description. It shows that *G. blinii* is quite variable with respect to leaf shape and ovary/fruit indumentum but relatively well characterized not only by its reddish purple flowers but also by height, leaf size, retrorsely aculeolate stems and leaf margins, and the usually medium-sized and only small-bracteate cymes, relatively short and firm post-floral peduncles and pedicels, and larger flowers with acute (but not aristate) lobes. This allows separation from its closest relatives, *G. prattii* and *G. asperifolium* (where transitional forms occur), but also from *G. dahuricum* and *G. tokyoense*.*Galium blinii* is a critical taxon that belongs to the lower elevation subgroup (1) of the *G. asperifolium* group (see there). It was considered a synonym of *G. asperifolium* var. *sikkimense* by Cufodontis (Oesterr. Bot. Z. 89: 241. 1940), Lauener and Ferguson (Notes Roy. Bot. Gard. Edinburgh 32: 106. 1973), and W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(2): 273. 1999). Only Mill (Edinburgh J. Bot. 53: 204. 1996) commented on its reddish purple flowers and other differential characters, regarded it as a distinct species, and proposed to use its old but so far neglected name. Up to now, specimens of this rather widespread taxon were named as *G. asperifolium* var. *sikkimense*, *G. pseudoasprellum* var. *densiflorum*, etc. Analyses of a considerable number of relevant specimens from PE, KUN, and WU support Mill’s interpretation and led to the above, more elaborate description. It shows that *G. blinii* is quite variable with respect to leaf shape and ovary/fruit indumentum but relatively well characterized not only by its reddish purple flowers but also by height, leaf size, retrorsely aculeolate stems and leaf margins, and the usually medium-sized and only small-bracteate cymes, relatively short and firm post-floral peduncles and pedicels, and larger flowers with acute (but not aristate) lobes. This allows separation from its closest relatives, *G. prattii* and *G. asperifolium* (where transitional forms occur), but also from *G. dahuricum* and *G. tokyoense*.
  "Statistics": "● Mountain slopes, river beaches, ditch sides, open fields, grasslands, meadows, thickets, forests; 800-3000 m. Guizhou, Hubei, Shaanxi, Sichuan, Xizang, Yunnan.
  "Synonym": "?*Galium bodinieri* H. Léveillé; ?*G. quinatum* H. Léveillé &amp; Vaniot.
**49. 五叶拉拉藤（云南种子植物名录）**

Galium quinatum Levl. in Bull. Acad. Geog. Bot. 25: 47. 1915 et Cat. Pl. Yunnan 245. 1917; Cuf. in Oesterr. Bot. Zeitschr. 89: 248. 1940; Ferguson in Not. Roy. Bot. Gard. Edinb. 32 (1): 107. 1972; 云南种子植物名录, 下册: 1252. 1984.

多年生草本，簇生，扩散，无毛，淡绿色。叶每轮5片，大小不等，顶端短尖，1脉。花细小；花冠紫色，裂片顶端短尖。果黑色，无毛。花果期9月。

产云南（东川）。生于平地，海拔2500米。
