小猪殃殃",
25.**Galium innocuum** Miquel Fl. Ned. Ind. 2: 341. 1857.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, weak to procumbent, from slender rhizomes. Stems (7-)10-40(-60) cm, 4-angled, caespitose, glabrous and smooth to sparsely retrorsely aculeolate on angles. Leaves in whorls of 4(-6), subsessile; blade drying papery, blackish or green, linear-lanceolate to oblanceolate, 3-8(-10) × 1-2 mm, glabrous and smooth to sparsely retrorsely aculeolate on margins and midrib, base acute to attenuate, apex rounded or obtuse; vein 1. Inflorescences terminal and axillary, cymes 1-3.5 cm, with 1-3(or 4) flowers; peduncles glabrous and smooth; bracts oblanceolate to narrowly elliptic; fruiting pedicels (3-)5-8(-10) mm, straight and ± divaricate. Ovary didymous, glabrous, smooth. Corolla white, cup-shaped to slightly campanulate, 1-1.8 mm in diam.; lobed to 1/2 or slightly more; lobes 3(or 4), ovate and rounded at tip. Fruit markedly didymous, mericarps (sub)globose, 2-2.8 mm, glabrous, smooth to slightly tuberculate. Fl. and fr. Mar-Aug.
  "Reference": "In the available floras of China and Taiwan, W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(2): 252-253. 1999) and Yang and Li (Bull. Natl. Mus. Nat. Sci., Taichung 11: 101-117. 1998; Fl. Taiwan, ed. 2, 4: 254-259. 1998) have completely ignored *Galium innocuum*, classifying most of the relevant specimens under *G. trifidum*. In the Kew Rubiaceae checklist (Govaerts et al., World Checkl. Rubiaceae; http://www.kew.org/wcsp/rubiaceae/; accessed on 15 Sep 2010) *G. trifidum* var. *modestum* appears as a synonym under *G. innocuum*, with a range from India to China and through Taiwan to SE Asia and New Guinea. Originally, *G. innocuum* was described from Java. In the critical revision of *G.* sect. *Aparinoides* by Puff (Canad. J. Bot. 54: 1911-1925. 1976), not considered by the above authors, *G. innocuum* is accepted as a valid species and regarded as a southern member of the *G. trifidum* group. The above diagnosis and distribution data correspond to Puff’s revision. He differentiated the two species mainly by their fruiting pedicels: relatively short, straight, and ± divaricate in *G. innocuum* but slender, elongated, and conspicuously arcuate in *G. trifidum* s.s. According to Puff (loc. cit.: 1922-1923) only *G. innocuum* but none of the subspecies of *G. trifidum* occur in China. This is in strong conflict with W. C. Chen (loc. cit.: 253) who described the distribution of *G. trifidum* in China by listing the provinces Anhui, Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hebei, Heilongjiang, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning, Nei Mongol, Shanxi, Sichuan, Taiwan, Xizang, Yunnan, and Zhejiang. As we have seen only limited Chinese material of *G.* sect. *Aparinoides*, the question remains whether *G. innocuum* extends from S to N China or is replaced further north by populations of the *G. trifidum* group not mentioned by Puff. Furthermore, one has to consider that species from other sections of *Galium* have often been misidentified as members of *G.* sect. *Aparinoides*, e.g., *G. bungei*. In view of these uncertainties, we accept only *G. innocuum* but not *G. trifidum* for the present Chinese flora.In the available floras of China and Taiwan, W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(2): 252-253. 1999) and Yang and Li (Bull. Natl. Mus. Nat. Sci., Taichung 11: 101-117. 1998; Fl. Taiwan, ed. 2, 4: 254-259. 1998) have completely ignored *Galium innocuum*, classifying most of the relevant specimens under *G. trifidum*. In the Kew Rubiaceae checklist (Govaerts et al., World Checkl. Rubiaceae; http://www.kew.org/wcsp/rubiaceae/; accessed on 15 Sep 2010) *G. trifidum* var. *modestum* appears as a synonym under *G. innocuum*, with a range from India to China and through Taiwan to SE Asia and New Guinea. Originally, *G. innocuum* was described from Java. In the critical revision of *G.* sect. *Aparinoides* by Puff (Canad. J. Bot. 54: 1911-1925. 1976), not considered by the above authors, *G. innocuum* is accepted as a valid species and regarded as a southern member of the *G. trifidum* group. The above diagnosis and distribution data correspond to Puff’s revision. He differentiated the two species mainly by their fruiting pedicels: relatively short, straight, and ± divaricate in *G. innocuum* but slender, elongated, and conspicuously arcuate in *G. trifidum* s.s. According to Puff (loc. cit.: 1922-1923) only *G. innocuum* but none of the subspecies of *G. trifidum* occur in China. This is in strong conflict with W. C. Chen (loc. cit.: 253) who described the distribution of *G. trifidum* in China by listing the provinces Anhui, Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hebei, Heilongjiang, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning, Nei Mongol, Shanxi, Sichuan, Taiwan, Xizang, Yunnan, and Zhejiang. As we have seen only limited Chinese material of *G.* sect. *Aparinoides*, the question remains whether *G. innocuum* extends from S to N China or is replaced further north by populations of the *G. trifidum* group not mentioned by Puff. Furthermore, one has to consider that species from other sections of *Galium* have often been misidentified as members of *G.* sect. *Aparinoides*, e.g., *G. bungei*. In view of these uncertainties, we accept only *G. innocuum* but not *G. trifidum* for the present Chinese flora.
  "Statistics": "Swampy or wet localities at lower to upper montane elevations. Fujian, Sichuan, Taiwan, Yunnan, and ?elsewhere [India, Indochina, Indonesia (Java, Sumatra), New Guinea].
  "Synonym": "*Galium modestum* Diels; *G. trifidum* Linnaeus var. *modestum* (Diels) Cufodontis.
**27b. 小猪殃殃（变种）（中国高等植物图鉴）东川拉拉藤（云南种子植物名录）**

var. modestum (Diels) Cuf. in Oesterr. Bot. Zeitschr. 89: 233. 1940; 中国高等植物图鉴 4: 282. 1975.——G. modestum Diels in Not. Roy. Bot. Gard. Edinb. 5: 280. 1912; Levl. Cat. Pl. Yunnan 245. 1917; Hand. -Mazz. Symb. Sin. 7(4): 1027. 1936; 云南种子植物名录, 下册: 1252. 1984.

本变种与小叶猪殃殃不同的是：花冠裂片有3脉，花柱不等的2裂。花果期夏秋。

产四川、云南。生于潮湿地，海拔1350-2500米。分布于印度东北部。模式标本采自云南瑞丽一南底埂口。
