拟三花拉拉藤",
58.**Galium trifloriforme** Komarov Trudy Imp. S.-Peter-burgsk. Bot. Sada. 18: 428. 1901.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, from elongated rhizomes. Stems procumbent to erect, (10-)25-40(-65) cm tall, 4-angled, mostly slightly retrorsely aculeolate, hirtellous at nodes. Leaves on main stems in whorls of up to 6(-8), subsessile; blade drying papery, blackish or green, narrowly obovate to oblanceolate, (12-)18-28(-50) × (3-)5-10(-15) mm, with sparse antrorse microhairs adaxially, moderately retrorsely aculeolate abaxially on vein and at leaf margins, base acute to cuneate, margins flat to thinly revolute, apex acute, obtuse, or rounded and abruptly mucronate; vein 1. Inflorescences with axillary and terminal cymes on upper 2 or 3 nodes, mostly 2-8-flowered; axes glabrous, smooth; bracts none or few, narrowly elliptic to narrowly lanceolate, 2-5 mm; pedicels ca. 1.5 mm. Ovary obovoid, ca. 0.5 mm, densely hispidulous with undeveloped trichomes. Corolla white or pale green, rotate, 1.5-2 mm in diam., glabrous; lobes 4, triangular, acute. Mericarps ellipsoid, 1.5-2.5 mm, with dense uncinate trichomes ca. 1 mm, fruiting pedicels divaricate and elongating to 10 mm. Fl. and fr. Jul-Sep.
  "Reference": "*Galium trifloriforme* is a variable and problematic taxon from NE Asia. It was either accepted as a separate species (e.g., by Pobedimova et al., Fl. URSS 23: 303. 1958; Yamazaki, Fl. Japan 3a: 239. 1993) or was treated as a synonym of *G. triflorum* (see Cufodontis, Oesterr. Bot. Z. 89: 236-237. 1940) or of *G. hoffmeisteri* (e.g., W. C. Chen in FRPS 71(2): 230. 1999, as *G. asperuloides* subsp. *hoffmeisteri*; Govaerts et al., World Checkl. Rubiaceae; http://www.kew.org/wcsp/rubiaceae/; accessed on 15 Sep 2010). It differs from the very close typical *G. triflorum* by its more condensed inflorescence with cymes terminal and on the upper 1 or 2(or 3) nodes, its always retrorsely aculeolate leaf margins, and its mostly rough stems.*Galium trifloriforme* is a variable and problematic taxon from NE Asia. It was either accepted as a separate species (e.g., by Pobedimova et al., Fl. URSS 23: 303. 1958; Yamazaki, Fl. Japan 3a: 239. 1993) or was treated as a synonym of *G. triflorum* (see Cufodontis, Oesterr. Bot. Z. 89: 236-237. 1940) or of *G. hoffmeisteri* (e.g., W. C. Chen in FRPS 71(2): 230. 1999, as *G. asperuloides* subsp. *hoffmeisteri*; Govaerts et al., World Checkl. Rubiaceae; http://www.kew.org/wcsp/rubiaceae/; accessed on 15 Sep 2010). It differs from the very close typical *G. triflorum* by its more condensed inflorescence with cymes terminal and on the upper 1 or 2(or 3) nodes, its always retrorsely aculeolate leaf margins, and its mostly rough stems.
  "Statistics": "Mountain forests, open fields; 2200-3400 m. Heilongjiang, Jilin, Nei Mongol, Qinghai [Japan, Korea, NE Russia].
