四川拉拉藤",
48.**Galium sichuanense** Ehrendorfer Novon. 20: 275. 2010.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, from filiform rhizomes ascending to erect, ca. 30 cm tall. Stems single, strongly branched from base, with 4 prominent and whitish angles, glabrous and smooth, only slightly aculeolate at nodes. Middle stem leaves and leaflike stipules in whorls of 4-6; blade drying papery and greenish-brownish, lanceolate, (12-)15-20(-25) × (3-)4-6(-7) mm, glabrous but on adaxial side near margins with antrorse appressed microhairs, on ± flat margins retrorsely (sometimes also somewhat antrorsely) aculeolate, subsessile and gradually narrowed into base, largest breadth near middle, apex cuspidate with hyaline point; principal vein 1. Inflorescences broadly ovate, many flowered, cymes terminal and lateral, 2.5-5 cm, slender, leafy and bracteate to last branches, ± divaricate; axes glabrous; peduncles 1.5-2 cm; pedicels 0.5-5 mm. Flowers hermaphroditic. Ovary obovoid, 0.5-0.8 mm, with appressed curved hairs. Corolla dried reddish brown, rotate, 1.5-2 mm in diam.; lobes 4, triangular, cuspidate. Mericarps ovoid, 1.8-2.5 mm, with ± spreading uncinate trichomes 0.2-0.3 mm. Fl. Jul-Aug, fr. Aug-Sep.
  "Reference": "Up to now, only two collections of *Galium sichuanense* are known from the type locality. The new species is morphologically isolated and not closely related to any other taxon of the genus. Its character profile, particularly its perennial, hemicryptophytic growth form, the partly retrorsely aculeolate leaf margins, and the fruit with uncinate trichomes, designates it as a member of *G.* sect. *Trachygalium*, but there are also features reminiscent of *G.* sect. *Hylaea* (cf. Ehrendorfer et al., Fl. Iranica 176: 181. 2005). Nevertheless, the combination of the branching pattern, the membranous leaves, the predominant glabrescence, the leafy inflorescences, and the small flowers separate it clearly from all other members of the two sections.Up to now, only two collections of *Galium sichuanense* are known from the type locality. The new species is morphologically isolated and not closely related to any other taxon of the genus. Its character profile, particularly its perennial, hemicryptophytic growth form, the partly retrorsely aculeolate leaf margins, and the fruit with uncinate trichomes, designates it as a member of *G.* sect. *Trachygalium*, but there are also features reminiscent of *G.* sect. *Hylaea* (cf. Ehrendorfer et al., Fl. Iranica 176: 181. 2005). Nevertheless, the combination of the branching pattern, the membranous leaves, the predominant glabrescence, the leafy inflorescences, and the small flowers separate it clearly from all other members of the two sections.
  "Statistics": "● Mountain forests; 3200-4000 m. Sichuan (Daocheng).
**21e. 四川拉拉藤（变种）（中国高等植物图鉴）**

var. nemorosum Cuf. in Oesterr. Bot. Zeitschr. 89: 230. 1940. ——G. elegans Wall. ex Roxb. var. javanicum (Bl.) Hand.-Mazz. Symb. Sin. 7(4): 1029. 1936, pro parte.

本变种与小红参不同的是：茎上部无毛或极疏地被开展的疏柔毛；叶较薄，披针形或卵状披针形，长8-30毫米，宽3-7毫米；花序较疏，曲折。花果期7-8月。

产四川（宝兴）、贵州（赫章）、云南（大姚）。生于山坡草地，海拔约1940米。
