屏边拉拉藤",
44.**Galium rupifragum** Ehrendorfer Novon. 20: 273. 2010.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, densely caespitose, emerging from a slender branching rootstock; all vegetative parts very fragile when dried and with a loose indumentum of soft hairs, 0.5-0.8 mm, ± straight and spreading, on upper leaf surface slightly retrorse. Stems ascending or erect, 5-10 cm tall, 4-angled, hairy, with 12-18 internodes, increasing in length from 2-8(-15) mm upward, with some short vegetative lateral branches from middle region to inflorescence base. Leaves in whorls of 4; blade thinly papery and remaining ± greenish when dried, ovate to broadly lanceolate, 5-8 × 2.5-3.5 mm, loosely hairy on both sides and marginally, base attenuate, margins flat or slightly revolute, apex acute to apiculate; principal veins 3, palmate, lateral weak. Inflorescences terminal, often with 3 cymes, each with 3-5 flowers; bracts few and ± reduced; peduncles 4-5 mm and pedicels 0.5-3 mm, glabrescent, somewhat elongated and divaricate in fruit. Flowers hermaphroditic. Ovary ovoid, ca. 0.5 × 0.3 mm, with still undeveloped appressed hairs. Corolla greenish white, rotate, ca. 1.5 mm in diam., with 4 triangular and acute to slightly apiculate lobes. Mericarps 0.8-1 mm, with spreading uncinate trichomes ca. 0.25 mm. Fl. and fr. Jul-Sep.
  "Reference": "The above description of *Galium rupifragum* is based on two sheets collected by H. T. Tsai (*H. T. Tsai 60986*) on rocks at the type locality and deposited in PE. *Galium rupifragum* belongs to *G.* sect. *Platygalium* s.l. and exhibits affinities with the *G. bungei* group, in particular with *G. salwinense*. Both share slender growth and uncinate fruit hairs. But *G. salwinense* has fewer (only up to 10) and longer (up to 10-20 mm) stem internodes, smaller leaves, only 1 (and not 3) main leaf veins, and smaller flowers. Nevertheless, on Emei Shan (Sichuan) typical *G. salwinense* occurs at lower elevations, whereas at higher elevations reduced forms approach *G. rupifragum*. In addition, there are also obvious similarities between *G. rupifragum* and representatives of the *G. morii* group (see there), growing with five accepted species in the high mountains of Taiwan, particularly with *G. morii* itself and with the related *G. formosense*. Main differences from the latter are its lower growth and smaller leaves, from the former its hirsute stems and the more divaricate, often longer peduncles and pedicels.The above description of *Galium rupifragum* is based on two sheets collected by H. T. Tsai (*H. T. Tsai 60986*) on rocks at the type locality and deposited in PE. *Galium rupifragum* belongs to *G.* sect. *Platygalium* s.l. and exhibits affinities with the *G. bungei* group, in particular with *G. salwinense*. Both share slender growth and uncinate fruit hairs. But *G. salwinense* has fewer (only up to 10) and longer (up to 10-20 mm) stem internodes, smaller leaves, only 1 (and not 3) main leaf veins, and smaller flowers. Nevertheless, on Emei Shan (Sichuan) typical *G. salwinense* occurs at lower elevations, whereas at higher elevations reduced forms approach *G. rupifragum*. In addition, there are also obvious similarities between *G. rupifragum* and representatives of the *G. morii* group (see there), growing with five accepted species in the high mountains of Taiwan, particularly with *G. morii* itself and with the related *G. formosense*. Main differences from the latter are its lower growth and smaller leaves, from the former its hirsute stems and the more divaricate, often longer peduncles and pedicels.
  "Statistics": "● Mountain regions, on rocks; ca. 1800 m. Yunnan (Pingbian).
