大胞拉拉藤",
33.**Galium megacyttarion** R. R. Mill Edinburgh J. Bot. 53: 200. 1996.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, weak to procumbent. Stems 6-40 cm, sharply 4-angled, glabrous, smooth, rough or sparsely retrorsely aculeolate; internodes 6.5-33 mm; nodes ± hairy. Middle stem leaves in whorls of up to 6, sessile; blade drying papery, often blackening, linear-oblanceolate to narrowly elliptic, 2-12.5 × 0.4-2 mm, glabrous, smooth or sparsely retrorsely aculeolate on midrib abaxially, adaxially with relatively large epidermal cells (use 20× lens), base acute, margins flat to thinly revolute, apex acute then contracted and mucronate; vein 1. Inflorescences axillary, with 1- or occasionally 3-flowered cymes; pedicels 0.2-1.5 mm, glabrous, smooth. Ovary ellipsoid-obovoid, ca. 0.5 mm, glabrous, smooth. Corolla white or pale green (perhaps sometimes drying pink), rotate, 1.5-2.7 mm in diam.; lobes 4, lanceolate-spatulate, glabrous beneath, puberulent above, with shortly acuminate apex, clearly longer than stamens. Mericarps ellipsoid, 0.7-1.1 × 1-1.5 mm, glabrous, granular-verruculose, with pedicels often elongating to 3.5 mm. Fl. and fr. Jul-Sep.
  "Reference": "*Galium megacyttarion* (type from Uttar Pradesh, *Raizada 7326*, E) belongs to the high elevation Himalayan subgroup (2) of the *G. asperifolium* group, which includes *G. acutum* (see additional comments under these species). The protologue of *G. megacyttarion* describes the flowers as having stamens shorter than the corolla; comparable information is not yet available for the majority of the Chinese *Galium* species. We have seen no material cited in the original description nor plants which undoubtedly belong here. Nevertheless, one very condensed provenance (*Duthie 7492*, from Bhutan, the Black Mountain Expedition 1888, WU) exhibits the large leaf epidermal cells described for *G. megacyttarion*; but it deviates by having antrorse microhairs on the adaxial leaf side and glabrous leaf margins, finely rough stems, many-flowered cymes, and glabrous petals. It was determined by Cufodontis (Oesterr. Bot. Z. 89: 241-243. 1940) erroneously as *G. asperifolium* var. *sikkimense*. Another plant with large epidermal cells has been seen from Sichuan (W. C. Chen, 23 Jun 1988, PE), but this corresponds in all other characters to *G. pusillosetosum*.*Galium megacyttarion* (type from Uttar Pradesh, *Raizada 7326*, E) belongs to the high elevation Himalayan subgroup (2) of the *G. asperifolium* group, which includes *G. acutum* (see additional comments under these species). The protologue of *G. megacyttarion* describes the flowers as having stamens shorter than the corolla; comparable information is not yet available for the majority of the Chinese *Galium* species. We have seen no material cited in the original description nor plants which undoubtedly belong here. Nevertheless, one very condensed provenance (*Duthie 7492*, from Bhutan, the Black Mountain Expedition 1888, WU) exhibits the large leaf epidermal cells described for *G. megacyttarion*; but it deviates by having antrorse microhairs on the adaxial leaf side and glabrous leaf margins, finely rough stems, many-flowered cymes, and glabrous petals. It was determined by Cufodontis (Oesterr. Bot. Z. 89: 241-243. 1940) erroneously as *G. asperifolium* var. *sikkimense*. Another plant with large epidermal cells has been seen from Sichuan (W. C. Chen, 23 Jun 1988, PE), but this corresponds in all other characters to *G. pusillosetosum*.
  "Statistics": "Open places, forests; 1800-3100 m. ?Sichuan, Xizang [Bhutan, India, Nepal].
