芮芭拉拉藤",
43.**Galium rebae** R. R. Mill Edinburgh J. Bot. 53: 195. 1996.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, procumbent and mat-forming. Stems (5-)14-30(-45) cm, 4-angled or -sulcate, branched, glabrous and smooth, but sometimes with scattered straight hairs. Leaves in whorls of up to 6, sessile; blade drying papery, blackish, linear-lanceolate to narrowly oblanceolate, 2.5-10.5 × 0.4-1.4 mm, with inconspicuous epidermal cells, glabrous and smooth, rarely with a few straight hairs on abaxial midvein, base cuneate, margins entire and smooth, flat to thinly revolute, apex acute, contracted and shortly mucronate; vein 1. Inflorescences with predominantly axillary cymes, 1-6-flowered; axes glabrous, smooth; pedicels 0.1-3.2 mm. Ovary ellipsoid-obovoid, ca. 0.5 mm, glabrous, smooth. Corolla red, purple, or occasionally white, rotate, 1.7-3.6 mm in diam., glabrous to papillose; lobes 4, lanceolate-spatulate, adaxially glabrous except puberulent on margins and central vein, apex acute to shortly acuminate. Mericarps ellipsoid, ca. 1.5 × 0.7 mm, glabrous and smooth or granular-verruculose, on pedicels often elongating to 5 mm. Fl. and fr. Jun-Nov.
  "Reference": "*Galium rebae* belongs to the Himalayan and SW Chinese complex of (sub)alpine taxa from the *G. asperifolium* group studied by Mill (Edinburgh J. Bot. 53: 193-213. 1996; Fl. Bhutan 2(2): 825-834. 1999). It is closely related to *G. acutum* and often only separable by its flower color (see comments under that species). At the same time, it appears linked to the likewise reddish flowering but larger *G. blinii* at lower elevations. Reddish flowers also occur in *G. pusillosetosum*, which differs by its dense stem, leaf, and fruit indumentum.*Galium rebae* belongs to the Himalayan and SW Chinese complex of (sub)alpine taxa from the *G. asperifolium* group studied by Mill (Edinburgh J. Bot. 53: 193-213. 1996; Fl. Bhutan 2(2): 825-834. 1999). It is closely related to *G. acutum* and often only separable by its flower color (see comments under that species). At the same time, it appears linked to the likewise reddish flowering but larger *G. blinii* at lower elevations. Reddish flowers also occur in *G. pusillosetosum*, which differs by its dense stem, leaf, and fruit indumentum.
  "Statistics": "Damp banks under evergreen forests, alpine meadows, on rocks; 2000-4000 m. Sichuan, Xizang, Yunnan [Bhutan, India (Sikkim), Nepal].
  "Synonym": "?*Galium bodinieri* H. Léveillé.
