三脉猪殃殃",
26.**Galium kamtschaticum** Steller ex Schultes & J. H. Schul-tes Mant. 3: 186. 1827.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, erect, 5-25 cm tall, emerging from filiform rhizomes. Stems mostly unbranched, 4-angled, glabrous to sparsely hispidulous. Leaves in whorls of 4, sessile or subsessile; blade drying blackish brown and papery, broadly elliptic, ovate, or suborbicular, 10-25 × 6-17 mm, glabrous to hispidulous at least on veins, otherwise adaxially smooth, abaxially not glandular-striate, base cuneate to obtuse, margins antrorsely ciliolate or hispidulous, apex ± rounded and usually mucronate; principal veins 3, palmate. Inflorescences small, thyrsoid, cymes terminal and in axils of uppermost leaves, 2-6 cm, few to several flowered, lax; peduncles glabrous, smooth; bracts leaflike or ligulate to narrowly elliptic, 0.5-4 mm; pedicels 1-5 mm. Ovary subglobose, ca. 1 mm, densely pubescent with spreading uncinate trichomes. Corolla white or greenish yellow, rotate, 2.5-3(-4) mm in diam., glabrous, lobed for 3/4 or more; lobes 4, elliptic-lanceolate or ovate-triangular, acute. Mericarps ovoid, 1.5-2 mm, with dense uncinate trichomes 0.8-1 mm, on pedicels usually elongating to 15 mm. Fl. and fr. Jul-Sep.
  "Reference": "*Galium kamtschaticum* is an amphi-Beringian member of *G.* sect. *Platygalium* and forms a related species group with *G. chekiangense* in SE China, *G. nakaii* in Japan, and *G. oreganum* in W North America. In the *Flora of Japan* (Yamazaki, Fl. Japan 3a: 206-240. 1993) three varieties are recognized, one of them endemic to Japan, the second extending to Sakhalin and the Kuriles, and only var. *kamtschaticum* more widespread and extending to the NE provinces of China. Specimens from SE China, Zhejiang, that were determined as *G. kamtschaticum* and those from Fujian that were listed by W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(2): 265. 1999) as *G. nakaii* differ from typical *G. kamtschaticum* by their leaves drying somewhat leathery, greenish-brownish, papillose, glandular-striate abaxially, and by their fruit with short hairs 0.1-0.2 mm, with a bent but not hooked tip. In the present flora they are treated as a new species, *G. chekiangense* (see the comments under that species).*Galium kamtschaticum* is an amphi-Beringian member of *G.* sect. *Platygalium* and forms a related species group with *G. chekiangense* in SE China, *G. nakaii* in Japan, and *G. oreganum* in W North America. In the *Flora of Japan* (Yamazaki, Fl. Japan 3a: 206-240. 1993) three varieties are recognized, one of them endemic to Japan, the second extending to Sakhalin and the Kuriles, and only var. *kamtschaticum* more widespread and extending to the NE provinces of China. Specimens from SE China, Zhejiang, that were determined as *G. kamtschaticum* and those from Fujian that were listed by W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(2): 265. 1999) as *G. nakaii* differ from typical *G. kamtschaticum* by their leaves drying somewhat leathery, greenish-brownish, papillose, glandular-striate abaxially, and by their fruit with short hairs 0.1-0.2 mm, with a bent but not hooked tip. In the present flora they are treated as a new species, *G. chekiangense* (see the comments under that species).
  "Statistics": "Forests on mountains, tussocks at ditch sides; 1500-2300 m [as low as ca. 100 m in N Japan]. Heilongjiang, Jilin [Japan, Korea, NE Russia; NW North America].
**20. 三脉猪殃殃（东北植物检索表）堪察加拉拉藤（西藏植物志）图版55: 10-11**

Galium kamtschaticum Steller ex Roem. et Schult. Syst. Veg. Mant. 3: 186. 1827; Pobed. in Kom. Fl. URSS 23: 330. 1958; 东北植物检索表351. 1959; Hara, Enum. Sperm. Jap. 2: 6. 1952.

多年生草本，高5-15厘米；茎无毛，不分枝，柔弱。叶薄纸质，每轮4片，广椭圆形、阔倒卵形或近圆形，长1-2.5厘米，宽6-17毫米，顶端钝圆而有小尖头，基部急尖，两面具稀薄而紧贴的短毛，沿边缘具短缘毛，3脉，无柄或近无柄。聚伞花序顶生和生于上部叶腋，长2-6厘米，常2歧分枝，少花，最末分枝2-3花；总花梗长8-40毫米；花直径3-4毫米；花梗长1-2毫米；萼管被毛；花冠白色或淡绿黄色，裂片4，椭圆状披针形或卵状三角形，长1毫米，宽0.8毫米，顶端尖。果密被长钩状刚毛，直径1.5-2毫米，果爿单生或双生；果柄长3-15毫米。花果期7-9月。

产黑龙江、吉林。生于山地林下、沟边草丛，海拔1500-2300米。分布于俄罗斯、朝鲜、日本、美洲北部。
