山地拉拉藤",
53.**Galium takasagomontanum** Masamune Trans. Nat. Hist. Soc. Formosa. 26: 52. 1936.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial (not annual), erect, ca. 30 cm tall. Stems 4-angled, slender, much branched, glabrous. Leaves in whorls of 4 or 5, sessile; blade narrowly ovate or ovate, abaxially pilose along veins, apex acuminate; principal vein 1 or with 2 short and weakly developed lateral veins. Inflorescences terminal, with few-flowered trichotomous cymes; peduncles glabrous; pedicels 1-2 mm, glabrous. Ovary ovoid-subglobose, ca. 1 mm, with undeveloped trichomes. Corolla white, rotate, ca. 3 mm in diam.; lobes 4, acute. Mericarps subglobose, with dense uncinate trichomes. Fl. and fr. Jul.
  "Reference": "*Galium takasagomontanum* was not treated or mentioned by Yang and Li (Bull. Natl. Mus. Nat. Sci., Taichung 11: 101-117. 1998; Fl. Taiwan, ed. 2, 4: 254-259. 1998), and we have not seen authentic material. According to the protologue it may belong to the condensed Taiwan mountain group of *G. morii* (see there), where it appears similar with its weakly 3-nerved leaves to *G. nankotaizanum* but differs by glabrous stems, somewhat larger flowers, and uncinate trichomes on mericarps. Nevertheless, its quite tall growth, the partly 5-whorled leaves, the exclusively terminal inflorescences, and the flower size are more indicative of its being a synonym of the Taiwanese *G. echinocarpum* from *G.* sect. *Hylaea*. A definite placement will only be possible after inspection of the type material.*Galium takasagomontanum* was not treated or mentioned by Yang and Li (Bull. Natl. Mus. Nat. Sci., Taichung 11: 101-117. 1998; Fl. Taiwan, ed. 2, 4: 254-259. 1998), and we have not seen authentic material. According to the protologue it may belong to the condensed Taiwan mountain group of *G. morii* (see there), where it appears similar with its weakly 3-nerved leaves to *G. nankotaizanum* but differs by glabrous stems, somewhat larger flowers, and uncinate trichomes on mericarps. Nevertheless, its quite tall growth, the partly 5-whorled leaves, the exclusively terminal inflorescences, and the flower size are more indicative of its being a synonym of the Taiwanese *G. echinocarpum* from *G.* sect. *Hylaea*. A definite placement will only be possible after inspection of the type material.
  "Statistics": "● Conifer mountain forests; ca. 2800 m. Taiwan.
