姬兰拉拉藤",
19.**Galium ghilanicum** Stapf Denkschr. Kaiserl. Akad. Wiss., Wien. Math.-Naturwiss. Kl. 50: 53. 1886.",

## Description
Herbs, annual, ascending, branching from base. Stems (4-)8-30(-40) cm tall, tender, 4-angled, with retrorsely aculeolate angles and numerous, rather short internodes. Leaves at middle stem region in whorls of (5 or)6-8(or 9), ± sessile; blade drying papery, linear-elliptic to narrowly oblanceolate, mostly glabrous but margins and sometimes abaxial vein sparsely to densely antrorsely aculeolate, base acute, apex acute-acuminate. Inflorescences narrowly thyrsoid, with axillary and terminal cymes mostly 2-6-flowered; peduncles as long or 2-4 × as long as subtending leaves, slightly divaricate, with 1 or 2 bracts, ± smooth; pedicels thin, 0.5-4 mm, reflexed and hardly elongated in fruit. Flowers hermaphroditic. Ovary obovoid to ellipsoid, ca. 0.8 mm, glabrous. Corolla white or greenish white, slightly cup-shaped, 0.8-1.2 mm in diam.; lobes ovate, acute to shortly apiculate. Mericarps subglobose to kidney-shaped, 0.8-1.5 mm, colliculate, glabrous.
  "Reference": "*Galium ghilanicum* belongs to the annual *G.* sect. *Microgalium* and is a taxon widespread in SW Asia. It is here recorded for the first time for China. In FRPS (71(2): 237. 1999) it was misidentified as *G. aparine* var. *leiospermum* (= *G. aparine* f. *leiocarpum*, *G. spurium*), from which it is clearly separable by its antrorsely (and not retrorsely) aculeolate leaf margins. The other Chinese representative of *G.* sect. *Microgalium*, *G. tenuissimum*, differs from *G. ghilanicum* mainly by its strongly elongated peduncles and pedicels.*Galium ghilanicum* belongs to the annual *G.* sect. *Microgalium* and is a taxon widespread in SW Asia. It is here recorded for the first time for China. In FRPS (71(2): 237. 1999) it was misidentified as *G. aparine* var. *leiospermum* (= *G. aparine* f. *leiocarpum*, *G. spurium*), from which it is clearly separable by its antrorsely (and not retrorsely) aculeolate leaf margins. The other Chinese representative of *G.* sect. *Microgalium*, *G. tenuissimum*, differs from *G. ghilanicum* mainly by its strongly elongated peduncles and pedicels.
  "Statistics": "Open habitats; ca. 700 m. Xinjiang (Yining) [Afghanistan, Nepal, N Pakistan, Tajikistan; SW Asia].
  "Synonym": "*Galium parisiense* Linnaeus var. *brachypodum* Boissier; *G. transcaucasicum* Stapf.
