尖瓣拉拉藤",
1.**Galium acutum** Edgeworth Trans. Linn. Soc. London. 20: 61. 1846.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, procumbent, much branched, mat-forming. Stems up to 30 cm, 4(or 6)-angled, glabrous, smooth or sometimes with scattered (very rarely more dense) short and straight hairs. Leaves in whorls of up to 6, sessile; blade drying papery and blackish, linear-oblanceolate to narrowly elliptic-oblanceolate, 2-8.5 × 0.3-1.5 mm, glabrous and smooth, occasionally with straight hairs, base cuneate, margins flat to thinly revolute, very rarely antrorsely aculeolate, apex acute, ± contracted and mucronate; vein 1. Inflorescences with terminal and axillary cymes, 1- to few flowered; peduncles (1.5-)3-8(-10) mm; pedicels (0.1-)0.5-2(-3) mm, glabrous, smooth. Ovary ellipsoid-obovoid, ca. 0.5 mm, didymous, glabrous. Corolla white, pale greenish, or yellowish, rotate, 1.2-3.5 mm in diam., glabrous to puberulent, lobed for 2/3 or more; lobes 4, lanceolate-spatulate, inside (i.e., adaxially) papillose, shortly acuminate. Mericarps ellipsoid, ca. 1 × 0.4-0.6 mm, glabrous, smooth or granular-verruculose, often on elongating pedicels. Fl. and fr. Jul-Oct.
  "Reference": "*Galium acutum* is a (sub)alpine Himalayan member of the *G. asperifolium* group (see under that species). This group of taxa can be divided into subgroups: (1) from lower elevations and (2) from higher elevations. The latter subgroup is represented in the W Himalaya of Pakistan by *G. acutum* alone (Nazimuddin &amp; Ehrendorfer, Pl. Syst. Evol. 155: 71-75. 1987). Mill (Edinburgh J. Bot. 53: 193-213. 1996; Fl. Bhutan 2(2): 825-834. 1999) has analyzed both subgroups in detail with emphasis on their E Himalayan members. Among subgroup (2) he recognized three species: *G. acutum* and the newly described *G. rebae* and *G. megacyttarion*. The only material from China incorporated in Mill’s study are specimens of *G. rebae* from Xizang deposited at E and BM. Additional species from subgroup (2) from the C and E Himalaya and adjacent China treated here are *G. baldensiforme*, *G. pusillosetosum*, *G. glabriusculum*, and *G. sungpanense*. They appear well separable from *G. acutum*.*Galium acutum* is a (sub)alpine Himalayan member of the *G. asperifolium* group (see under that species). This group of taxa can be divided into subgroups: (1) from lower elevations and (2) from higher elevations. The latter subgroup is represented in the W Himalaya of Pakistan by *G. acutum* alone (Nazimuddin &amp; Ehrendorfer, Pl. Syst. Evol. 155: 71-75. 1987). Mill (Edinburgh J. Bot. 53: 193-213. 1996; Fl. Bhutan 2(2): 825-834. 1999) has analyzed both subgroups in detail with emphasis on their E Himalayan members. Among subgroup (2) he recognized three species: *G. acutum* and the newly described *G. rebae* and *G. megacyttarion*. The only material from China incorporated in Mill’s study are specimens of *G. rebae* from Xizang deposited at E and BM. Additional species from subgroup (2) from the C and E Himalaya and adjacent China treated here are *G. baldensiforme*, *G. pusillosetosum*, *G. glabriusculum*, and *G. sungpanense*. They appear well separable from *G. acutum*.
  "Statistics": "Mountain rocks and slopes; 2000-4100 m. ?Sichuan, Xizang, ?Yunnan [India, Nepal, Pakistan].
**59．尖瓣拉拉藤（西藏植物志）**

Galium acutum Edgew. in Trans. Linn. Soc. 20: 61. 1846; Hook. f. Fl. Brit. Ind. 3: 208. 1881; Hara in Hara et al. Enum. Flow. Pl. Nepal 2: 200. 1979; 云南种子植物名录, 下册: 1250. 1984; 西藏植物志4: 469. 1985. ——G. himalayens Klotzsch in Klotzsch et Garcke, Reise Pr. Wald. Bot. 88, t. 73. 1862.

多年生矮小草本，高15-30厘米，全株无毛，干时黑色；茎交错，多分枝，纤细，具4-6角棱，近直立或平卧。叶每轮6片，常紧密着生，很小，线状披针形或椭圆状披针形，长2-6毫米，宽0.5-1毫米，顶端锐尖，有短尖头，边常反卷，1脉，无柄。花单个腋生；花梗长1-2毫米，果时伸长和直；花冠白色或淡黄白色，裂片披针形，顶端短尖；雄蕊比花冠短；花柱2裂，叉开，比雄蕊长。果无毛，颗粒状粗糙的，黑色，近球形，直径约2毫米。

产西藏。生于生地，海拔2000-4100米。分布于印度、尼泊尔、锡金、不丹。
