泡果拉拉藤",
8.**Galium bullatum** Lipsky Trudy Imp. S.-Peterburgsk. Bot. Sada. 13: 300. 1894.",

## Description
Subshrubs, perennial, erect or ascending, sometimes caespitose, 5-40 cm tall. Rootstock stout, woody. Stems 4-angled, very shortly pilose at base, glabrous and smooth above. Leaves in whorls of 5-8, drying blackish, linear to linear-oblanceolate, 12-27 × 1-2 mm, glabrous or sparsely ciliolate toward acute apex; vein 1. Inflorescences terminal on main and short lateral branches, cymose to corymbiform, lax, few to several flowered; axes glabrous and smooth; bracts reduced or none; pedicels 1-4 mm. Ovary ovoid, ca. 1.5 mm, glabrous. Corolla white, cup-shaped to subrotate, 3.5-5 mm in diam., glabrous; lobes 4, lanceolate-oblong, slightly mucronulate. Fruit usually from 1 mericarp only, subglobose, 3-3.5 mm in diam., glabrous, smooth, white, with pericarp inflated, spongy to ± fleshy. Fl. Jun-Jul, fr. Jul-Aug.
  "Reference": "*Galium bullatum* is a member of *G.* sect. *Orientigalium* centered in SW Asia and characterized by slightly cup-shaped corollas, never retrorsely aculeolate stems, etc. The above diagnosis is taken from the original description and a collection by Szovits in W (\"in Persia borealis\"). We have not seen a specimen from China. The description by W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(2): 274. 1999), evidently based on plants from Xinjiang, deviates from the authentic material in W by describing the stems as retrorsely hispidulous along angles and the corolla as rotate. Species of *G.* sect. *Orientigalium* usually are rather locally distributed (Ehrendorfer et al., Fl. Iranica 176: 205-231. 2005), and the distance between Nakhichevan and Xinjiang is enormous. All this makes it quite unlikely that *G. bullatum* (or even other related members of *G.* sect. *Orientigalium*) really occurs in China. A definite decision has to wait until voucher specimens become available for comparison.*Galium bullatum* is a member of *G.* sect. *Orientigalium* centered in SW Asia and characterized by slightly cup-shaped corollas, never retrorsely aculeolate stems, etc. The above diagnosis is taken from the original description and a collection by Szovits in W (\"in Persia borealis\"). We have not seen a specimen from China. The description by W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(2): 274. 1999), evidently based on plants from Xinjiang, deviates from the authentic material in W by describing the stems as retrorsely hispidulous along angles and the corolla as rotate. Species of *G.* sect. *Orientigalium* usually are rather locally distributed (Ehrendorfer et al., Fl. Iranica 176: 205-231. 2005), and the distance between Nakhichevan and Xinjiang is enormous. All this makes it quite unlikely that *G. bullatum* (or even other related members of *G.* sect. *Orientigalium*) really occurs in China. A definite decision has to wait until voucher specimens become available for comparison.
  "Statistics": "Grasslands, meadows; ca. 500 m. ?Xinjiang [SW Asia (Armenia, ?Iran, Nakhichevan)].
**39．泡果拉拉藤（植物分类学报）图版59：9-10**

Galium bullatum Lipsky in Acta Hort. Petrop. 13: 300. 1894; Pobed. in Kom. Fl. URSS 23: 377, Pl. 20. fig. 2. 1958; W. C. Chen in Acta Phytotax. Sinica 28(4): 304. 1990.

多年生草本；根粗，木质，褐色；茎很多，高20-30厘米，直立，在基部木质，纤细，具4角棱，在节上肥大和稍白色，沿棱具很短向下的糙硬毛，稀无毛，有光泽，分枝，具直而短向上的枝。叶纸质，每轮4-6片，线形，长10-17毫米，宽1-2毫米，上部的较小，顶端具短尖头，基部渐狭，沿边缘和叶上面具极细的毛或无毛，1脉，无柄。聚伞花序顶生，疏松，少花；总花梗和花梗均无毛；花梗短，与果等长或较果短；花冠淡白色，直径4-5毫米，花冠裂片卵状长圆形，中央具褐色条纹；花丝向基部扩大，花药黄色，大，花柱顶部2裂。果直径3-3.5毫米，无毛，白色，有光泽，具疏松的、膨胀的果皮，果爿单生或双生。果期8月。

产新疆（察布查尔）。生于草地，海拔约530米。分布于俄罗斯。
