狭序拉拉藤",
46.**Galium saurense** Litvinov Trudy Bot. Muz. Imp. Akad. Nauk. 7: 75. 1910.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, caespitose, with stout rootstock and slender, woody rhizomes. Stems erect or ascending, 8-30 cm tall, 4-angled and ± puberulent. Leaves in whorls of 4 in lower and of 6 in middle stem region, sessile; blade dark green adaxially, pale green abaxially, linear or linear-oblong, 7-15 × 0.5-2.5 mm, smooth or usually sparsely to densely scaberulous adaxially, usually densely hairy abaxially, base acute to cuneate, margins ± revolute, apex mucronate; vein 1. Inflorescences narrowly paniculate with axillary and terminal, 3-15-flowered cymes; peduncles bracteose, ± densely pubescent (rarely glabrescent), with 1-3 mm long pedicels. Ovary ellipsoid, ± puberulent. Corolla yellow, rotate, 3-4 mm in diam., lobed for 3/4 or more; lobes 4, ovate-oblong, acute. Mericarps ellipsoid, ca. 2 × 3 mm, ± densely puberulent (rarely glabrous or ± tuberculate). Fl. and fr. Jul-Aug.
  "Reference": "*Galium saurense*, a C Asiatic mountain taxon, belongs to *G.* sect. *Galium* and the extremely polymorphic Eurasiatic *G. verum* group. It refers to condensed alpine populations, in which the leaf whorls are reduced to 4-6 elements. The Kew Rubiaceae checklist (Govaerts et al., World Checkl. Rubiaceae; http://www.kew.org/wcsp/rubiaceae/; accessed on 15 Sep 2010) treats it as a synonym of *G. verum* subsp. *verum*, whereas Ehrendorfer et al. (Fl. Iranica 176: 199, 204. 2005) suggest to maintain its specific rank as long as the whole group has not been studied more intensively. In Pobedimova et al. (Fl. URSS 23: 368-369. 1958) *G. saurense* is reported i.a. from the Tien Shan in the border region of Kazakhstan and Xinjiang, but its description is in conflict with plate 21, figure 1, which rather corresponds to *G. majmechense* and *G. consanguineum*. W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(2): 285. 1999) included *G. saurense* as a dubious species and suspected its occurrence in NW China. We have seen no authentic specimens, but vouchers from Xinjiang and Qinghai (and possibly other provinces) fit its description quite well. Nevertheless, their separation from *G. verum* s.s. is partly doubtful.*Galium saurense*, a C Asiatic mountain taxon, belongs to *G.* sect. *Galium* and the extremely polymorphic Eurasiatic *G. verum* group. It refers to condensed alpine populations, in which the leaf whorls are reduced to 4-6 elements. The Kew Rubiaceae checklist (Govaerts et al., World Checkl. Rubiaceae; http://www.kew.org/wcsp/rubiaceae/; accessed on 15 Sep 2010) treats it as a synonym of *G. verum* subsp. *verum*, whereas Ehrendorfer et al. (Fl. Iranica 176: 199, 204. 2005) suggest to maintain its specific rank as long as the whole group has not been studied more intensively. In Pobedimova et al. (Fl. URSS 23: 368-369. 1958) *G. saurense* is reported i.a. from the Tien Shan in the border region of Kazakhstan and Xinjiang, but its description is in conflict with plate 21, figure 1, which rather corresponds to *G. majmechense* and *G. consanguineum*. W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(2): 285. 1999) included *G. saurense* as a dubious species and suspected its occurrence in NW China. We have seen no authentic specimens, but vouchers from Xinjiang and Qinghai (and possibly other provinces) fit its description quite well. Nevertheless, their separation from *G. verum* s.s. is partly doubtful.
  "Statistics": "Alpine and subalpine habitats. Qinghai, Xinjiang [Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Russia].
  "Synonym": "*Galium densiflorum* Ledebour var. *saurense* (Litvinov) Tzvelev.
**57．狭序拉拉藤（新拟）**

Galium saurense Litw. in Trav. Mus. Bot. Acad. Petersb. 7: 75. 1910; Pobed. in Kom. Fl. URSS 23: 368. 1958; Fl. Kazakhst. 8: 207. 1965.

多年生草本，高8-30厘米；根粗，根状茎纤细，木质；茎纤细，直立或上升，不分枝或从基部分枝，具4-6角棱，常被短毛。叶每轮4-6片，线形或线状长圆形，长7-15毫米，宽0.5-2.5毫米，顶端具小凸尖，沿边缘反卷，常卷至中脉处，上面暗绿色，常很粗糙，被短而硬的向上的刚毛，稀光滑，下面淡白绿色，被密而硬的白毛，稀两面无毛，1脉，无柄；苞叶每轮2片，小，长1.5-3毫米，宽0.25-0.75毫米，长圆状椭圆形，顶端短尖，两面被较密的白毛。圆锥花序式的聚伞花序顶生和生于上部叶腋，狭而疏，每一花序具3-15花；总花梗和花梗密被毛，稀近无毛；花梗在花时较短于花，在果时与果相等或较长；花冠黄色，直径3-4毫米，花冠裂片4，有时5，卵形或长圆形，顶端短尖。果近黑色，长2毫米，宽3毫米，被短而密的毛，稀近无毛或无毛，具疣状凸起。

产我国西部。分布于俄罗斯、中亚。
