大叶猪殃殃",
13.**Galium dahuricum** Turczaninow ex Ledebour Fl. Ross. 2: 409. 1844.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, from a slender reddish rootstock. Stems erect to ascending, weak to procumbent and often climbing, sometimes up to 2.5 m, 4-angled, sparsely to densely retrorsely aculeolate along angles and at nodes, rarely ± glabrescent. Leaves on main stems in whorls of 5 or 6, subsessile; blade drying papery, of very variable shape, from obovate and elliptic-oblong to narrowly oblanceolate, (11-)15-40(-55) × (2-)3-10(-14), sparsely to densely retrorsely aculeolate adaxially along midrib, abaxially, and along flat to thinly reflexed margins, base acute to cuneate, apex acute to obtuse and mucronate; vein 1. Inflorescences paniculate, with axillary and terminal, several- to many-flowered, usually very lax and up to 7 cm long cymes; axes filiform and often flexuous, sparsely aculeolate to glabrous; bracts few, lanceolate; pedicels slender, in flower 2-5 mm. Ovary obovoid, ca. 0.8 mm, with dense spreading or appressed undeveloped trichomes, or glabrous. Corolla white or pale green, rotate, of quite different sizes, (1-)1.5-3(-4) mm in diam., glabrous; lobes 4, triangular, obtuse to acute or minutely apiculate. Mericarps ellipsoid, ca. 2 mm, with appressed or spreading and uncinate trichomes (0.3-0.5 mm), tuberculate to completely glabrous and smooth, on pedicels elongating to 10 mm or more. Fl. Jun-Sep, fr. Jul-Nov.
  "Reference": "Within *Galium* sect. *Trachygalium* and the extremely polymorphic species group of *G. asperifolium* (see there) Cufodontis (Oesterr. Bot. Z. 89: 239-243. 1940), Yamazaki (Fl. Japan 3a: 206-240. 1993), and W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(2): 255-258. 1999) differentiated the closely related taxa *G. dahuricum* (in FRPS as *\"G. davuricum,\"* the spelling used in the protologue by Ledebour), *G. tokyoense*, *G. pseudoasprellum*, and *G. manshuricum* mainly according to the lack (in the two former) and the presence (in the two latter) of appressed or spreading uncinate trichomes on the mericarps. As this character apparently often varies within populations of these taxa, the present treatment relies on the much more stable feature of slender, filiform, and ± flexuose vs. more stiff and divaricate peduncles and pedicels. The former state characterizes *G. dahuricum* (including *G. manshuricum* and *G. pseudoasprellum*), the latter *G tokyoense*. This species assembly has its distribution center in E Asia but extends with *G. asprellum* Michaux s.s. into E North America.Within *Galium* sect. *Trachygalium* and the extremely polymorphic species group of *G. asperifolium* (see there) Cufodontis (Oesterr. Bot. Z. 89: 239-243. 1940), Yamazaki (Fl. Japan 3a: 206-240. 1993), and W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(2): 255-258. 1999) differentiated the closely related taxa *G. dahuricum* (in FRPS as *\"G. davuricum,\"* the spelling used in the protologue by Ledebour), *G. tokyoense*, *G. pseudoasprellum*, and *G. manshuricum* mainly according to the lack (in the two former) and the presence (in the two latter) of appressed or spreading uncinate trichomes on the mericarps. As this character apparently often varies within populations of these taxa, the present treatment relies on the much more stable feature of slender, filiform, and ± flexuose vs. more stiff and divaricate peduncles and pedicels. The former state characterizes *G. dahuricum* (including *G. manshuricum* and *G. pseudoasprellum*), the latter *G tokyoense*. This species assembly has its distribution center in E Asia but extends with *G. asprellum* Michaux s.s. into E North America.
  "Statistics": "Humid forests, thickets, ditch sides, grasslands, meadows; 200-3400 m. Fujian, Gansu, Guizhou, Hebei, Heilongjiang, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Jilin, Liaoning, Nei Mongol, Ningxia, Qinghai, Shaanxi, Shanxi, Sichuan, Xinjiang, Xizang, Yunnan, Zhejiang [Japan, Korea, Russia].
**32．昌化拉拉藤（植物分类学报）**

Galium niewerthi Franch. et Savat. Enum. Pl. Jap. 2: 393. 1879; Maxim. in Bull. Acad. Imp. Sci. St. -Petersb. 29: 176. 1883; Makino in Bot. Mag. Tokyo 17: 111. 1903; Hara, Enum. Sperm. Jap. 2: 8. 1952; Ohwi, Fl. Jap. 1093. 1953; W. C. Chen in Acta Phytotax. Sinica 28 (4): 302. 1990.

多年生草本，高达80厘米；茎柔弱，纤细，无毛，在基部稍分枝，在上部常分枝。叶薄纸质，每轮4-6片，常为4片，长圆状倒卵形或倒卵形，长1-3.8厘米，宽4-12毫米，顶端钝圆而具小凸尖，基部渐狭或短尖，边缘有或无倒向的疏小刺毛，干时常绿色，两面无毛或有紧贴的向上刺毛，两面在中脉上有倒向的疏小刺毛，1脉，具短柄或近无柄。聚伞花序腋生和顶生，圆锥状，长3-6厘米，2-3歧分枝，疏花，总花梗和花梗纤细，毛发状；苞片线形，渐尖，小苞片微小，刚毛状；花小；花梗较果长，果时长0.5-1.5厘米；花冠白绿色，辐状，直径约2毫米，花冠裂片椭圆状卵形，顶端具喙；雄蕊短；花柱短于花冠，顶部2裂。果无毛，干时常黑色，长2.5毫米，直径2毫米，分果爿长圆形，单生或双生。果期9-10月。

产浙江（昌化）。生于山谷林下溪旁草中。分布于日本。
