昆明拉拉藤",
30.**Galium kunmingense** Ehrendorfer Novon. 20: 270. 2010.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, erect, (12-)15-20(-25) cm tall. Stems with 4 prominent and rounded angles, with scattered antrorsely (or sometimes also retrorsely) curved short hairs, more dense at nodes; internodes 1.5-4 cm at middle stem regions, longer or somewhat shorter than leaves. Leaves in whorls of 4; blade drying leathery, broadly lanceolate, (10-)15-25(-35) × (4.5-)6-7.5(-9) mm, length/breadth index (2-)2.5-3.5(-4), glabrous, adaxially papillose, abaxially without glandular idioblasts, base cuneate, margins revolute, antrorsely aculeolate, apex acute but not acuminate; 3 prominent principal veins extending into apex region. Inflorescences pyramidal, with cymes from middle to upper stem nodes and terminal, several to many flowered; axes glabrous, somewhat divaricate; peduncles mostly 1.5-4 cm; pedicels (0.5-)1-5 mm; bracts lanceolate, small and inconspicuous. Flowers hermaphroditic. Ovary obovoid, ca. 0.5 mm, glabrous, smooth. Corolla white to greenish, cup-shaped or campanulate, (2-)2.3-2.5(-2.7) mm in diam., fused at base for ± length of 4 free lobes, 0.8-1 mm, lanceolate, acute but not apiculate. Mericarps ovoid, 1.5-3 mm, glabrous and ± smooth. Fl. Jun-Aug, fr. Jul-Sep.
  "Reference": "The new *Galium kunmingense* clearly belongs to *G. *sect. *Platygalium*. Among species in the section with corollas basally fused to ca. 1/2 the length *Microphysa elongata* deviates by leaves with only one main vein, somewhat inflated fruit mericarp, and funnelform corollas. *Galium platygalium* and *G. maximoviczii* have similar corollas but deviate by their broader and 3-5-veined leaves. Closer relationships can be assumed for some E Asiatic *Galium* species with rotate corollas: *G. kinuta* has glabrous fruit but narrower, adaxially punctate-striate glandular leaves, slender, more floriferous inflorescences, and larger flowers. Apparent relatives with rotate and smaller flowers are *G. hupehense* with spreading straight fruit hairs, *G. chekiangense* with appressed curved fruit hairs, and particularly *G. yunnanense*, with spreading uncinate fruit hairs. This latter is ± sympatric with *G. kunmingense* but differs not only by its rotate (not campanulate/cup-shaped) and smaller corollas and uncinate fruit hairs, but also by its more hairy and abaxially punctate-striate glandular leaves. It is remarkable that *G. kunmingense*, a quite conspicuous species that evidently was not too rare in the surroundings of the capital of Yunnan, has remained unnoticed up to now.The new *Galium kunmingense* clearly belongs to *G. *sect. *Platygalium*. Among species in the section with corollas basally fused to ca. 1/2 the length *Microphysa elongata* deviates by leaves with only one main vein, somewhat inflated fruit mericarp, and funnelform corollas. *Galium platygalium* and *G. maximoviczii* have similar corollas but deviate by their broader and 3-5-veined leaves. Closer relationships can be assumed for some E Asiatic *Galium* species with rotate corollas: *G. kinuta* has glabrous fruit but narrower, adaxially punctate-striate glandular leaves, slender, more floriferous inflorescences, and larger flowers. Apparent relatives with rotate and smaller flowers are *G. hupehense* with spreading straight fruit hairs, *G. chekiangense* with appressed curved fruit hairs, and particularly *G. yunnanense*, with spreading uncinate fruit hairs. This latter is ± sympatric with *G. kunmingense* but differs not only by its rotate (not campanulate/cup-shaped) and smaller corollas and uncinate fruit hairs, but also by its more hairy and abaxially punctate-striate glandular leaves. It is remarkable that *G. kunmingense*, a quite conspicuous species that evidently was not too rare in the surroundings of the capital of Yunnan, has remained unnoticed up to now.
  "Statistics": "● Open grasslands and rocky slopes; 1900-2500 m. C Yunnan.
