粗沼拉拉藤",
27.**Galium karakulense** Pobedimova in Schischkin Fl. URSS. 23: 712. 1958.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, weak to procumbent, 40-70 cm tall. Rootstock slender, with prolonged rhizomes. Stems 4-angled, flaccid, much branched, retrorsely aculeolate, hispidulous or glabrescent at nodes. Leaves in whorls of 4(or 5), subpetiolate; blade drying papery, elliptic to oblanceolate, (12-)15-20(-30) × (2-)5-8(-12) mm, densely antrorsely aculeolate adaxially and along margins, retrorsely aculeolate on abaxial midrib, base attenuate to cuneate, margins thinly revolute, apex rounded to bluntly pointed; vein 1. Inflorescences paniculate, terminal and lateral cymes with several to many flowers (usually more than 4); peduncles scabrous and ± divaricate; bracts ovate to elliptic, 3-7 × 1-3 mm; pedicels 2-4.5 mm, rough, elongated in fruit. Ovary didymous, glabrous. Corolla white, cup-shaped, 3-4(-4.5) mm in diam., 4-lobed to ca. 1/2. Mericarps (sub)globose, 1.5-2.5(-3.5) mm, glabrous, slightly verrucose. Fl. Jul, fr. Aug-Sep.
  "Reference": "*Galium karakulense* represents *G.* sect. *Aparinoides* in C Asia and is considered as a link between the *G. trifidum* group in the N Hemisphere and the predominantly Mediterranean-European *G. palustre* group (Puff, Canad. J. Bot. 54: 1923-1924. 1976). It is also treated in Pobedimova et al. (loc. cit.) and Ehrendorfer et al. (Fl. Iranica 176: 174. 2005) and may be responsible for some of the erroneous indications of *G. palustre* for N China, as discussed under *G. innocuum*. The latter is the second verified species of the section in the more southerly part of the Chinese flora. In comparison with *G. karakulense*, *G. innocuum* is a much smaller and more slender plant with few-flowered cymes and smooth pedicels.*Galium karakulense* represents *G.* sect. *Aparinoides* in C Asia and is considered as a link between the *G. trifidum* group in the N Hemisphere and the predominantly Mediterranean-European *G. palustre* group (Puff, Canad. J. Bot. 54: 1923-1924. 1976). It is also treated in Pobedimova et al. (loc. cit.) and Ehrendorfer et al. (Fl. Iranica 176: 174. 2005) and may be responsible for some of the erroneous indications of *G. palustre* for N China, as discussed under *G. innocuum*. The latter is the second verified species of the section in the more southerly part of the Chinese flora. In comparison with *G. karakulense*, *G. innocuum* is a much smaller and more slender plant with few-flowered cymes and smooth pedicels.
  "Statistics": "Swamps and riversides at low to middle elevations. Xinjiang (Chabuchaer) [Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan].
**26．粗沼拉拉藤（植物分类学报）图版56：9-11**

Galium karakulense Pobed. in Kom. Fl. URSS 23: 712. 1958. et op. cit. 332, Pl. 18. fig. 1; W. C. Chen in Acta Phytotax. Sinica. 28 (4): 302. 1990.

多年生草本，高40-70厘米；根纤细，长；茎粗，分枝多，具4角棱，下向地具皮刺，枝开展。叶纸质，每轮4片，稀5片，长圆状披针形，长1.5-3厘米，宽0.3-1.4厘米，顶端钝圆，基部渐狭，沿边缘和下面中脉具密而向下弯的小刺，1脉，具短柄或无柄。聚伞花序顶生，少至多花，花序分枝常成十字形叉开，总花梗长3-4厘米，粗糙；花梗短，与花等长或稍较长，粗糙；花冠白色，辐状，直径3.5-4毫米，花冠裂片长圆状卵形，内面有短柔毛；花药暗棕色；花柱顶端2裂。果长1.5-2毫米，直径3-3.5毫米，分果爿近圆球形，稍有皱纹，无毛。

产新疆（察布查尔）。生于河边沼泽地。分布于俄罗斯。
