圆锥拉拉藤",
38.**Galium paniculatum** (Bunge) Pobedimova Novosti Sist. Vyssh. Rast. 7: 277. 1971.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, often somewhat caespitose from elongated, much branched, and ca. 1 mm thick rhizomes. Stems erect, to 60 cm tall, 4-angled, little branched, glabrous and smooth, only sometimes puberulent at nodes. Leaves in whorls of up to 6, subsessile; blade drying papery, discolorous (more pale abaxially), lanceolate or narrowly lanceolate, (15-)25-60(-70) × (3-)5-10(-12) mm, glabrous, smooth or mostly somewhat antrorsely ciliolate on margins and midrib, base acute to cuneate, apex acute to acuminate; vein 1. Inflorescences terminal, 8-16 × 8-16 cm, corymbiform to paniculate, lax, with several- to many-flowered cymes; axes glabrous, smooth with few lanceolate, 1-3 mm long bracts and 1.5-6 mm long pedicels. Ovary obovoid, ca. 1 mm, glabrous. Corolla white, drying often yellowish brown, campanulate to funnelform, ca. 4 mm in diam., glabrous, lobed for ca. 1/2; lobes 4, triangular, acute. Fruit on elongating pedicels with ellipsoid, ca. 2 mm, glabrous and smooth mericarps. Fl. Jun-Jul, fr. Aug-Sep.
  "Reference": "When W. C. Chen described *Galium xinjiangense*, he compared it only with the completely different *G. odoratum*, not being aware of the certainly conspecific *G. paniculatum*. Because of its corolla shape, this characteristic and relatively isolated taxon was originally described as *Asperula*. But there is no affinity to any group of *Asperula* as presently circumscribed. Instead, there are similarities with *G.* ser. *Nemoralia* M. Popova of *G.* sect. *Leiogalium* and with some members of *G.* sect. *Orientigalium*. Therefore, the transfer of *A. paniculata* to *Galium* by Pobedimova was fully justified.When W. C. Chen described *Galium xinjiangense*, he compared it only with the completely different *G. odoratum*, not being aware of the certainly conspecific *G. paniculatum*. Because of its corolla shape, this characteristic and relatively isolated taxon was originally described as *Asperula*. But there is no affinity to any group of *Asperula* as presently circumscribed. Instead, there are similarities with *G.* ser. *Nemoralia* M. Popova of *G.* sect. *Leiogalium* and with some members of *G.* sect. *Orientigalium*. Therefore, the transfer of *A. paniculata* to *Galium* by Pobedimova was fully justified.
  "Statistics": "Montane river valleys, open forests, grasslands, rocky slopes and talus; 1300-1900 m. Xinjiang [Russia].
  "Synonym": "*Asperula paniculata* Bunge in Ledebour, Fl. Altaic. 1: 140. 1829; *Galium xinjiangense* W. C. Chen.
**58．圆锥拉拉藤（新拟）**

Galium paniculatum (Bunge) Pobed. in Nov. Syst. Pl. Vasc. 7: 277. 1971.——Asperula paniculata Bunge in Ledeb. Fl. Alt. 1: 140. 1829; Pobed. in Kom. Fl. URSS 23: 271. 1958; Fl. Kazakhst. 8: 187. 1965.

多年生草本；根状茎线状，多分枝，粗近1毫米；茎分枝或不分枝，直立，具4角棱，无毛，高15-50厘米。茎下部的叶每轮4片，其余的每轮6片，硬，披针形或卵状披针形，长1.5-3厘米，宽3-8毫米，顶端尖或短渐尖，沿边缘具短的白色刚毛，上面暗绿色，多少有光泽，下面较苍白。圆锥花序式的聚伞花序顶生，疏松；花冠淡白色，干时黄褐色，宽钟形，花冠裂片4，与花冠管等长，长近3毫米。果爿双生或单生，近球形，直径近2毫米。

产我国西部。分布于俄罗斯。
