隆子拉拉藤",
47.**Galium serpylloides** Royle ex J. D. Hooker Fl. Brit. India. 3: 207. 1881.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, ascending, 3-10 cm tall. Rootstock woody, rhizomatous. Stems 4-angled, branched, shortly pubescent. Leaves in whorls of 4(or ?5), sessile; blade drying papery, ovate or elliptic, 4-6 × 2.5-4 mm, glabrous or sparsely hirtellous, base rounded, margins thinly revolute, usually with antrorse microhairs, apex obtuse or slightly acute; principal vein 1 (or with 2 inconspicuous side veins). Inflorescences terminal and in axils of upper leaves, with cymes 5-8 mm, few or usually 3-flowered; pedicels 1-2 mm. Flowers hermaphroditic to subdioecious. Ovary appressed hairy. Corolla yellowish green, rotate, ca. 2 mm in diam.; lobes 4, ovate-triangular, acute. Mericarps up to 2 mm, with straight lanate hairs. Fl. and fr. Jun-Sep.
  "Reference": "Originally, *Galium serpylloides* was very broadly circumscribed as a species widely distributed throughout the whole Himalayan range. But a critical taxonomic analysis of the group by Sch?nbeck-Temesy and Ehrendorfer (Pl. Syst. Evol. 155: 77-87. 1987) revealed five vicarious and geographically well-separated species from Kashmir in the west to Nepal in the east: *G. gymnopetalum* Ehrendorfer &amp; Sch?nbeck-Temesy, *G. lakulense* Ehrendorfer &amp; Sch?nbeck-Temesy, *G. serpylloides* s.s., *G. saipalense* Ehrendorfer &amp; Sch?nbeck-Temesy, and *G. nepalense* Ehrendorfer &amp; Sch?nbeck-Temesy. The above cited locality from E Xizang, Lhünzê, published in FRPS (71(2): 228. 1999), is much further to the east, i.e., SE of Lhasa and NE of Bhutan. We have neither seen authentic material from this nor from other Xizang and Charme province collections in the herbarium BM (e.g., *Ludlow, Sheriff &amp; Taylor 6390*). At the moment, it is not possible to decide whether they correspond to one of the above mentioned species of the *G. serpylloides* group, or the related *G. glandulosum* group, or represent a still undescribed taxon. Therefore, we provisionally classify these SE Xizang populations under *G. serpylloides* s.l.Originally, *Galium serpylloides* was very broadly circumscribed as a species widely distributed throughout the whole Himalayan range. But a critical taxonomic analysis of the group by Sch?nbeck-Temesy and Ehrendorfer (Pl. Syst. Evol. 155: 77-87. 1987) revealed five vicarious and geographically well-separated species from Kashmir in the west to Nepal in the east: *G. gymnopetalum* Ehrendorfer &amp; Sch?nbeck-Temesy, *G. lakulense* Ehrendorfer &amp; Sch?nbeck-Temesy, *G. serpylloides* s.s., *G. saipalense* Ehrendorfer &amp; Sch?nbeck-Temesy, and *G. nepalense* Ehrendorfer &amp; Sch?nbeck-Temesy. The above cited locality from E Xizang, Lhünzê, published in FRPS (71(2): 228. 1999), is much further to the east, i.e., SE of Lhasa and NE of Bhutan. We have neither seen authentic material from this nor from other Xizang and Charme province collections in the herbarium BM (e.g., *Ludlow, Sheriff &amp; Taylor 6390*). At the moment, it is not possible to decide whether they correspond to one of the above mentioned species of the *G. serpylloides* group, or the related *G. glandulosum* group, or represent a still undescribed taxon. Therefore, we provisionally classify these SE Xizang populations under *G. serpylloides* s.l.
  "Statistics": "Mountain slopes; 3600-3800 m. Xizang (Lhünzê) [India, Nepal].
**7．隆子拉拉藤（植物分类学报）**

Galium serpylloides Royle ex Hook, f. Fl. Brit. Ind. 3: 207. 1881; Hara in Hara et al. Enum. Flow. Pl. Nepal 2: 202. 1979; W. C. Chen in Acta Phytotax. Sinica 28 (4): 300. 1990——G. glandulosum auct. non Hand. -Mazz.: 西藏植物志4: 469, 图197: 6-7. 1985.

矮小草本，高3-10厘米；根木质，生出多数近直立的茎；茎短，多分枝，枝具4角棱，被柔毛。叶纸质，小，密生，每轮4片，稀5片，卵形、长圆形或椭圆形，长4-6毫米，宽2.5-4毫米，顶端钝或稍尖，基部钝圆，两面无毛或疏被短粗毛，边缘有时稍反卷，常有刺状毛，1脉，无柄。聚伞花序顶生或生于上部叶腋，很小，长5-8毫米，通常3花；总花梗与叶等长或稍长；花小，花梗短，长1-2毫米；花冠黄绿色，辐状，直径约2毫米，花冠裂片4，卵状三角形，长约1毫米，顶端短尖。果被绵毛状毛，直径1-2毫米。花果期6月。

产西藏（隆子）。生于山坡，海拔约3600-3800米。分布于印度、尼泊尔。
