灰紫老鹳草",
25.**Geranium canopurpureum** Yeo",

> This species is known only by the type specimen. The protologue was based on the holotype at A (*T. T. Yü 7742*) on which the labels incorrectly indicated the collection was from Yunnan. The correct information based on records at PE is that the collection was made in Muli, Sichuan (H. N. Qin, pers. comm.). At first sight, *Geranium canopurpureum* could be considered as a reduced form of *G. pylzowianum*. However, it has leaves that are not as divided as *G. pylzowianum* and ± sericeous on the abaxial side, petals that are attenuate (without a claw) and without trichomes on the adaxial surface, and stipules and bracteoles that are dark purplish. In small specimens of *G. pylzowianum*, petal length is not reduced, and these other characters of *G. canopurpureum* are not present, which also supports the independence of the latter.

## Description
Perennials. Rootstock tubercles subglobose, 3.7-4 × 2.9-3.5 mm, with nontuberous separations 0.4-1.6 cm, 0.6-1 mm in diam., without thickened roots. Stem 7-9 cm tall, erect, not rooting at nodes, with 0.2-0.3 mm retrorse to appressed nonglandular trichomes. Stipules lanceolate to ovate, distinct. Leaves 1 alternate but opposite at inflorescence; petiole with 0.2-0.4 mm retrorse to appressed nonglandular trichomes; leaf blade 0.7-1.4 cm, palmately cleft, ratio of main sinus/middle segment length = 0.73-0.8, pilose with appressed nonglandular trichomes; segments 5, obtriangular, 1.2-1.5 mm wide at base, 1-3-lobed in distal half, ratio of second sinus/middle segment length = 0.19-0.26. Cymules solitary, 2-flowered; peduncle 2.9-4.7 cm. Pedicel 2-3.4 cm, with 0.2-0.3 mm retrorse to appressed nonglandular trichomes; bracteoles lanceolate. Sepals 5.3-6.3 mm, mucro 0.7-0.8 mm, ratio of mucro/sepal length = 0.11-0.15, outside with 0.1-0.4 mm antrorse to patent nonglandular trichomes, inside glabrous. Petals pink, 0.8-1.2 mm, erect to patent, margin basally ciliate, apex rounded. Staminal filaments pinkish, lanceolate, abaxially pilose and proximal half ciliate, trichomes 0.3-0.8 mm; anthers purple, 1.1-1.3 mm. Nectaries 5, hemispheric, glabrous. Stigma dark purplish. Fruit unknown. Seeds unknown. Fl. Aug.

> ● Sparse forests; ca. 3500 m. SW Sichuan (Muli).
