灰背老鹳草",
44.**Geranium wlassovianum** Fischer ex Link",

> *Geranium wlassovianum* and *G. maximowiczii* share shallowly divided leaves, paler on the abaxial side. Both species are difficult to differentiate, and the main characters are referred to in the key. Additionally, in *G. wlassovianum*, the anthers, gynoecium, fruit, and staminal filaments are longer (and with a dense tuft of trichomes). Trichomes on the stem and inflorescence are also longer and usually patent.

## Description
Perennials. Rootstock ± vertical, 0.7-1.7 cm in diam., not tuberculate, with a fascicle of long thickened roots. Stem 25-86 cm tall, erect, not rooting at nodes, with 0.3-0.9 mm patent or rarely retrorse and appressed nonglandular trichomes. Stipules lanceolate, distinct or connate at least at base. Leaves opposite; petiole with usually 0.2-0.9 mm patent nonglandular trichomes; leaf blade 3.7-8.1 cm, palmately cleft, ratio of main sinus/middle segment length = 0.7-0.81(-0.84), pilose with appressed nonglandular trichomes; segments 5, rhombic, 6-13(-19.1) mm wide at base, 7-10-lobed in distal half, ratio of second sinus/middle segment length = (0.13-)0.2-0.24(-0.25). Cymules solitary, 2-flowered; peduncle 4.3-12.3 cm. Pedicel 2-6.2 cm, with 0.2-0.6 mm patent or retrorse ± appressed nonglandular trichomes; bracteoles lanceolate. Sepals (0.8-)0.9-1.1 cm, mucro 1.1-3.9 mm, ratio of mucro/sepal length = 0.1-0.3, with 0.1-0.3 mm antrorse ± appressed nonglandular trichomes and 0.2-1 mm ± patent nonglandular trichomes on abaxial side, glabrous adaxially. Petals 1.6-2.1 cm, erect to patent, entire, adaxial base with trichomes, margin basally ciliate, deep purplish magenta. Staminal filaments pinkish, lanceolate, base slightly dilated, abaxially densely pilose and proximal half ciliate, trichomes 0.6-1.5 mm; anthers bluish, 1.6-2.6 mm. Nectaries 5, hemispheric, abaxially glabrous, apex with a tuft of trichomes. Stigma deep red to pink. Fruit 3-3.4 cm, erect when immature; mericarps smooth, with a basal callus, with 0.3-0.7 mm ± patent nonglandular trichomes and apically usually with 0.6-1 mm patent glandular trichomes; rostrum 2.1-2.5 cm, with a 3-4.8 mm narrowed apex; stigmatic remains 5-6.9 mm. Seeds 2-2.5 mm. Fl. Jul-Aug, fr. Aug-Sep. 2*n* = 28, 56.

> Forests, meadows; 1800-3400 m. Hebei, Heilongjiang, Henan, Jilin, Liaoning, Nei Mongol, Shandong, Shanxi [Korea, Mongolia, Russia (Baikal to Far East)].
