髯毛老鹳草",
22.**Geranium pogonanthum** Franchet",

> This species is difficult to differentiate from *Geranium delavayi* when fresh petals are not available to observe their colors. However, *G. **pogonanthum* has staminal filaments with longer and abundant trichomes and longer petals. Glandular indumentum is also variable in *G. pogonanthum*, being sometimes just present on the stem base and other times only on the inflorescence. Bracteoles are sometimes filiform, like in *G. delavayi*, and other times lanceolate as in *G. yunnanense*.

## Description
Perennials. Rootstock ± horizontal, 4.2-15.6 mm in diam., not tuberculate, with thickened roots along rootstock. Stem 22-59 cm tall, erect, not rooting at nodes, with 0.4-1.1 mm retrorse to patent nonglandular trichomes and rarely 1-1.9 mm patent glandular trichomes. Stipules broadly lanceolate, connate at least at base. Leaves opposite; petiole with 0.4-1.1 mm patent to retrorse nonglandular trichomes; leaf blade 3.9-7.6 cm, palmately cleft, ratio of main sinus/middle segment length = 0.68-0.92, pilose with ± appressed nonglandular trichomes; segments 5, rhombic, 4.7-10.1 mm wide at base, 7-29-lobed in distal half, ratio of second sinus/middle segment length = 0.17-0.34. Cymules solitary, 2-flowered; peduncle 5-11 cm. Pedicel 1-3.4 cm, with 0.3-0.6 mm patent to retrorse nonglandular trichomes and sometimes 0.2-0.5 mm patent glandular trichomes; bracteoles filiform to lanceolate. Sepals 6.9-11.1 mm, mucro 1.1-2.3 mm, ratio of mucro/sepal length = 0.1-0.2, outside with 0.6-1.7 mm ± patent nonglandular trichomes and sometimes 0.8-1.4 mm patent glandular trichomes, inside glabrous. Petals white to pink or purplish, (1.2-)1.3-1.4(-1.7) cm, reflexed, basally with a dense tuft of trichomes on inside surface, margin, and sometimes outside surface, apex rounded. Staminal filaments pink to purplish, lanceolate, abaxially densely pilose and proximal half ciliate, trichomes 1-1.8 mm; anthers blackish, 1.7-3.1 mm. Nectaries 5, hemispheric, abaxially glabrous, apex with a tuft of trichomes. Stigma purplish. Fruit 2.4-3.6 cm, nodding when immature; mericarps smooth, with a basal callus, with 0.4-0.8 mm ± patent nonglandular trichomes; rostrum 1.6-2.8 cm, with a 5.9-6.2 mm narrowed apex; stigmatic remains 2.3-3.1 mm. Seeds 2.5-3.5 mm. Fl. Jul-Aug, fr. Aug-Oct.

> ● Forest margins, scrub, meadows; 3000-3500 m. Sichuan, Yunnan.
  "Synonym": "*Geranium lankongense* H. W. Li; *G. meiguense* Z. M. Tan; *G. palustre* Linnaeus var. *stipulaceum* Franchet.
