吉隆老鹳草",
37.**Geranium lambertii** Sweet",

> This species shares with *Geranium wallichianum* blackish filaments and stigma and distinctively broad bracteoles. However, *G. lambertii* has more narrow stipules and staminal filaments with longer trichomes. *Geranium kishtvariense* R. Knuth is a close species from NW India with shorter stigmatic remains and staminal trichomes. Available material of *G. lambertii* from China is scarce, and some details of fruit and indumentum description are incompletely known for Chinese plants.

## Description
Perennials. Rootstock ± vertical, short, thick, subwoody, not tuberculate, with long thin fusiform roots. Stem 50-60 cm tall, trailing or ascending, rooting at nodes, with 0.2-0.7 mm patent to retrorse nonglandular trichomes. Stipules broadly lanceolate, distinct. Leaves opposite; petiole with 0.4-0.6 mm patent to retrorse nonglandular trichomes; leaf blade ca. 7.5 cm, palmately cleft, ratio of main sinus/middle segment length = ca. 0.76, pilose with appressed nonglandular trichomes; segments 5, rhombic, ca. 1.2 cm wide at base, 9- or 10-lobed in distal half, ratio of second sinus/middle segment length = ca. 0.21. Cymules solitary, 2-flowered; peduncle 5-18.5 cm. Pedicel 1.5-4.4 cm, with 0.2-0.7 mm patent to retrorse nonglandular trichomes; bracteoles broadly lanceolate. Sepals 0.9-1.4 cm, mucro 1.8-2 mm, ratio of mucro/sepal length = ca. 0.13, outside with 0.2-0.9 mm antrorse to patent nonglandular trichomes and 1-1.2 mm ± patent glandular trichomes, inside glabrous. Petals pale pink or white, 2-2.4 cm, erect to patent, inside basally with trichomes, margin basally ciliate, apex rounded. Staminal filaments blackish except base, lanceolate, abaxially densely covered with 1.5-2 mm trichomes but glabrous toward tip; anthers black. Nectaries 5, hemispheric, abaxially glabrous, apex with a tuft of trichomes. Stigma blackish. Fruit ca. 4 cm, erect when immature; mericarps smooth, with a basal callus; rostrum 2.6-3 cm, with a ca. 4 mm narrowed apex; stigmatic remains 5-6 mm. Seeds unknown. Fl. and fr. Jul-Sep. 2*n* = 30.

> Scrub; 2300-4200 m. S Xizang (Gyirong, Yadong) [Bhutan, N India, Kashmir, Nepal, Pakistan].
  "Synonym": "*Geranium chumbiense* R. Knuth; *G. grevilleanum* Wallich.
