萼翅藤属",
4.**Getonia** Roxburgh",

> The correct name for this genus is *Getonia*, not *Calycopteris* as given in FRPS (53(1): 3. 1984). Lamarck (Tabl. Encycl. 1: t. 357. 1793) published a plate captioned *\"Calycopteris\"* comprising an illustration with analysis. Under Art. 42.1 of the *Vienna Code* a name of a genus and its single species may be simultaneously validly published with a descriptio generico-specifica, in place of which, before 1908, an illustration with analysis is acceptable (Art. 42.3 and 42.4). However, Art. 42 does not apply to the publication of a genus name alone, so Lamarck did not validly publish any names. The text corresponding to the plate was published later (Poiret, Tabl. Encycl. 2: 485. 1819), but, before that, Poiret (Encycl., Suppl. 2: 41. 1811) published a description of the genus and recombined *Getonia floribunda* Roxburgh (1798) as its only species, *C. floribunda*. In citing *G. floribunda*, Poiret included the type of the then unispecific *Getonia*, so that *Calycopteris* was nomenclaturally superfluous when published and is therefore illegitimate (Art. 52.1).

## Description
Lianas woody. Leaves opposite or subopposite; leaf blade elliptic or lanceolate to ovate. Inflorescences axillary, simple or branched spikes crowded toward branchlet apex and forming a large, often dense, bracteate panicle. Calyx tube proximally ellipsoid, 5-ridged, distally campanulate; lobes 5, triangular-lanceolate at anthesis, persistent and much enlarged in fruit. Petals absent. Stamens 10. Fruit narrowly ovoid, dry, longitudinally 5-ridged; persistent calyx lobes spreading, winglike, elliptic to oblanceolate or narrowly so.
  "Statistics": "One species: Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, India, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam.
  "Synonym": "*Calycopteris* Poiret, nom. illeg. superfl.
