阿里山斑叶兰",
7.**Goodyera arisanensis** Hayata Icon. Pl. Formosan. 6: 91. 1916.",

## Description
Plants possibly epiphytic, ca. 25 cm tall. Rhizome stout, densely noded. Stem ascending, ca. 4 cm, 5-7-leaved. Leaves subrosulate at base of stem, ovate or oblong, 1-4 × 0.6-1.5 cm, possibly with white reticulate venation, base cuneate, apex acute; petiole-like base and tubular sheath 1-2 cm. Peduncle ca. 11 cm, sparsely pubescent, with 8 or 9 sterile bracts; rachis ca. 10 cm, densely 12-25-flowered, secund; floral bracts ovate-lanceolate, 3.5-4 mm, glabrous. Flowers small; pedicel and ovary ovoid-fusiform, ca. 3 mm, glabrous or sparsely pubescent. Sepals glabrous, 1-veined; dorsal sepal ovate-lanceolate, 3-3.8 × 1-1.2 mm, apex obtuse; lateral sepals oblong-lanceolate, oblique, 3.5-4 × ca. 1.2 mm, apex obtuse. Petals linear-lanceolate, falcate, ca. 3.5 × 0.7 mm, apex obtuse; lip ovate-lanceolate, 3.5-4 × ca. 1.5 mm, 3-veined; hypochile saccate, projecting beyond base of lateral sepals, glabrous, containing 2 parallel lamellae toward base; epichile linear-ligulate, apex obtuse, slightly recurved. Column ca. 1.5 mm; anther ovoid, ca. 0.8 mm; rostellum remnant deeply bifid. Fl. Aug.
  "Reference": "This species remains poorly circumscribed, and its placement is accordingly problematic. It has been considered synonymous with *Goodyera schlechtendaliana* (see FRPS 17: 133. 1999), though its habit and small flowers indicate that it is more closely affiliated with *G. repens*. Critical re-examination of floral characters, in particular the degree of pubescence on the sepals and the presence of papillae in the lip hypochile, is required to refine its delimitation.This species remains poorly circumscribed, and its placement is accordingly problematic. It has been considered synonymous with *Goodyera schlechtendaliana* (see FRPS 17: 133. 1999), though its habit and small flowers indicate that it is more closely affiliated with *G. repens*. Critical re-examination of floral characters, in particular the degree of pubescence on the sepals and the presence of papillae in the lip hypochile, is required to refine its delimitation.
  "Statistics": "&amp;#9679; Forests; ca. 2500 m. N Taiwan.
  "Synonym": "*Peramium arisanense* (Hayata) Makino.
