羊角菜属",
5.**Gynandropsis** Candolle Prodr. 1: 237. 1824.",

> Two species: pantropical and warm temperate; one species in China.

## Description
Herbs, annual [or rarely short-lived perennials], glabrate or glandular pubescent. Stipules absent. Leaves alternate, spirally arranged, palmately compound; petiole long or short, with pulvinus at basal or distal end; leaflets 3 or 5; petiolule bases connate forming a pulvinar disk; leaflet blades oblanceolate to rhombic, margin serrulate-denticulate. Inflorescences terminal, racemose and sometimes elongated, elongating in fruit; bract present at base of pedicels. Flowers zygomorphic. Sepals 4, equal, each often subtending a basal nectary. Petals 4, equal, distinct. Stamens 6; filaments adnate to basal portion of gynophore receptacle forming androgynophore ± as long as petals. Gynophore slender, elongating and recurving in fruit, scars from filaments visible for 1/3-1/2 its length; style short, thick; stigma 1, capitate. Fruit an oblong capsule, dehiscent. Seeds 10-40 per capsule, subspherical, not arillate; cleft fused between 2 ends of seed.
  "Reference": "The center of diversity is in S Asia. *Gynandropsis* is allied to *Cleome* but is distinguished by the long, conspicuous androgynophore. It has sometimes been included in *Cleome*, but most regional accounts of Capparaceae or Cleomaceae (e.g., Jafri, Fl. Pakistan 34: 17-20. 1973) in the Old World have given it generic status, an approach followed here.The center of diversity is in S Asia. *Gynandropsis* is allied to *Cleome* but is distinguished by the long, conspicuous androgynophore. It has sometimes been included in *Cleome*, but most regional accounts of Capparaceae or Cleomaceae (e.g., Jafri, Fl. Pakistan 34: 17-20. 1973) in the Old World have given it generic status, an approach followed here.
  "Synonym": "*Pedicellaria* Schrank.
