长隔木属",
34.**Hamelia** Jacquin Enum. Syst. Pl. 2, 16. 1760.",

> Sixteen species: neotropical, from S United States and Mexico to Argentina; one species (introduced) in China.

## Description
Shrubs, unarmed. Raphides absent. Leaves opposite or verticillate, usually with domatia; stipules persistent, interpetiolar, triangular. Inflorescences terminal, cymose with axes often helicoid and secund, many flowered, bracteate or bracts reduced. Flowers sessile to pedicellate, bisexual, monomorphic. Calyx limb 5-lobed. Corolla red to orange or yellow, tubular [to ventricose or funnelform], glabrous inside; lobes 5, imbricate in bud. Stamens 5, inserted at base of corolla tube, included or partially exserted; filaments short; anthers dorsifixed, 2-lobed at base, with connective flattened and prolonged at apex. Ovary 5-celled, ovules numerous in each cell on axile placentas; stigmas 1-5, linear to clavate, included or exserted. Fruit becoming red then purple-black, baccate, fleshy to juicy, ellipsoid to ovoid or subglobose, with calyx limb persistent; seeds numerous, small, irregularly angled to lenticular; testa membranous, reticulate.
  "Reference": "H. S. Lo (in FRPS 71(1): 388. 1999) described the flower arrangement with short pedicels or subsessile, but the structures interpreted there as pedicels are considered by one of us (C. M. Taylor) and by some other authors to be inflorescence axes and the flowers thus are sessile. Lo described the stipules as multifid or bristlelike, but this condition is not otherwise known from the genus and has not been seen on any Chinese specimens. He gave the number of calyx lobes, corolla lobes, and stamens as 4-6, but this has not been seen; these structures are 5 in all *Hamelia* species known. The corollas were described as villous in throat, but all known species of *Hamelia* have corollas that are glabrous inside; as well, the corolla was described as campanulate in shape, but the cultivated species has rather narrowly tubular flowers. The anthers were described as basifixed and entire at base, but other authors all found them dorsifixed and sagittate at base.H. S. Lo (in FRPS 71(1): 388. 1999) described the flower arrangement with short pedicels or subsessile, but the structures interpreted there as pedicels are considered by one of us (C. M. Taylor) and by some other authors to be inflorescence axes and the flowers thus are sessile. Lo described the stipules as multifid or bristlelike, but this condition is not otherwise known from the genus and has not been seen on any Chinese specimens. He gave the number of calyx lobes, corolla lobes, and stamens as 4-6, but this has not been seen; these structures are 5 in all *Hamelia* species known. The corollas were described as villous in throat, but all known species of *Hamelia* have corollas that are glabrous inside; as well, the corolla was described as campanulate in shape, but the cultivated species has rather narrowly tubular flowers. The anthers were described as basifixed and entire at base, but other authors all found them dorsifixed and sagittate at base.
  "Synonym": "*Duhamelia* Persoon; *Tangaraca* Adanson.
**58. 长隔木属 Hamelia Jacq.**

Jacq. Select. Arn. 71, t. 50. 1763; Hook. f. in Benth. et Hook. f. Gen. Pl. 2: 75. 1873; Schum. in Engl. u. Prantl, Nat. Pflanzenfam. IV (4): 86, fig. 30 (L, M). 1891.

灌木或草本。叶对生或3-4片轮生，有叶柄；托叶多裂或刚毛状，常早落。聚伞花序顶生，二或三歧分枝，分枝蝎尾状，花偏生于分枝一侧；花有梗或几无梗；小苞片通常小；萼管卵圆状至陀螺状，裂片4-6，通常短而直立，宿存；花冠管状或钟状，管上具4-6纵棱，基部缢缩，喉部被长柔毛，裂片4-6，覆瓦状排列；雄蕊4-6，生冠管基部，花丝稍短，花药基着，内藏或顶端伸出，药隔顶端有附属体；花盘肿胀；子房5室，每室有多数胚珠，花柱丝状，柱头近棱状，稍扭曲。浆果小，冠以肿胀的花盘，5裂，5室，每室有种子多颗；种子小，种皮膜质，有网纹。

本属模式种：长隔木 Hamelia patens Jacq.
<p style='text-indent:28px'>约40种；分布于拉丁美洲。我国栽培1种。
