启无耳草",
63.**Hedyotis wangii** R. J. Wang Acta Phytotax. Sin. 41: 85. 2003.",

## Description
Herbs, annual or perennial, to 6 cm tall; stems glabrous. Leaves petiolate; petiole 3-6 mm; blade drying papery, elliptic-oblong or ovate-elliptic, 3-5 × 1.5-2.3 cm, glabrous, base obtuse, apex acute; secondary veins ca. 5 pairs; stipules broadly rounded, ca. 0.5 mm, with 3 or 4 linear to narrowly triangular lobes or bristles ca. 2 mm. Inflorescence terminal, capitate or subcapitate, pedunculate; peduncle ca. 1.7 cm; head solitary, ovoid, ca. 0.5 cm, 4- or 5-flowered; bracts linear-lanceolate, ca. 3 mm. Flowers sessile. Calyx sparsely hirtellous or pilosulous or perhaps glabrous; hypanthium portion ellipsoid to obconic, 0.8-1 mm, ribbed; limb lobed nearly to base; lobes lanceolate, narrowly triangular, or linear, ca. 2 mm. Corolla white, tubular-funnelform, inside villosulous in upper part of tube and onto lobes; tube ca. 7 mm; lobes lanceolate, ca. 1 mm. Anthers ca. 2 mm, apparently exserted. Stigmas ca. 0.8 mm, apparently exserted. Fruit capsular, subglobose, ca. 3 mm in diam., pilosulous to perhaps glabrescent; seeds numerous, angled, reticulate. Fl. and fr. Sep.
  "Reference": "The calyx (including presumably the hypanthium) was described in the protologue as pubescent but both this and the fruit are shown in the protologue figure as glabrous.The calyx (including presumably the hypanthium) was described in the protologue as pubescent but both this and the fruit are shown in the protologue figure as glabrous.
  "Statistics": "● Mixed forests; ca. 1400 m. S Yunnan (Jinghong).
