肉叶耳草",
53.**Hedyotis strigulosa** (Bartling ex Candolle) Fosberg Smithsonian Contr. Bot. 45: 28. 1980.",

## Description
Herbs, annual or perennial, prostrate to erect, to 15(-20) cm tall; stems terete or weakly to sharply 4-angled, sometimes sulcate, glabrous. Leaves sessile; blade very fleshy, drying leathery, oblong-obovate, elliptic-oblong, oblanceolate, or spatulate, 1-2.5 × 0.2-1 cm, glabrous, base acute to decurrent, apex rounded, obtuse, or acute; secondary veins indistinct; stipules fused to petiole bases, triangular, 1-2 mm, glabrous, with 2 central longitudinal lines of glandular trichomes or fleshy ornamentation, acute to acuminate. Inflorescences terminal and sometimes in axils of uppermost leaves, 1-flowered or 2-12-flowered and shortly cymose, fasciculate, or paniculate, glabrous, subsessile to pedunculate; peduncles to 1.5 cm; bracts triangular, 0.1-2 mm; pedicels 1-12 mm. Flowers pedicellate. Calyx glabrous; hypanthium portion turbinate to ellipsoid, 1-1.5 mm; limb lobed for 1/2-2/3; lobes triangular to lanceolate, 0.8-2 mm. Corolla white, tubular, glabrous outside; tube 1.2-1.5 mm, barbate in throat; lobes triangular to oblanceolate, 1.2-2 mm. Anthers not seen. Stigmas ca. 0.8 mm, exserted. Fruit capsular, subglobose, hemispherical, or compressed turbinate, 3.5-5 mm, glabrous, loculicidal across top, sometimes with rudimentary beak; seeds numerous, blackish brown, subglobose to angled, foveolate. Fl. and fr. Dec-Apr.
  "Reference": "*Hedyotis taiwanensis* was treated as a species separate from *H. coreana* by W. C. Ko (in FRPS 71(1): 39, 73. 1999), and the name *H. strigulosa* was not cited by her. However, *H. coreana* was synonymized under *H. strigulosa* by Fosberg (loc. cit.), though provisionally. *Hedyotis taiwanensis* was synonymized with *H. strigulosa* by Fl. Taiwan (ed. 2, 4: 268. 1998). The Fl. Taiwan separated *Hedyotis strigulosa* from *H. biflora* based on the stoutness of the pedicels and fleshiness of the leaves, but different characters are used here and most of the specimens included by them in *H. strigulosa* are here included in *H. biflora*.*Hedyotis taiwanensis* was treated as a species separate from *H. coreana* by W. C. Ko (in FRPS 71(1): 39, 73. 1999), and the name *H. strigulosa* was not cited by her. However, *H. coreana* was synonymized under *H. strigulosa* by Fosberg (loc. cit.), though provisionally. *Hedyotis taiwanensis* was synonymized with *H. strigulosa* by Fl. Taiwan (ed. 2, 4: 268. 1998). The Fl. Taiwan separated *Hedyotis strigulosa* from *H. biflora* based on the stoutness of the pedicels and fleshiness of the leaves, but different characters are used here and most of the specimens included by them in *H. strigulosa* are here included in *H. biflora*.
  "Statistics": "Sandy or muddy beaches, wastelands, on rocks near sea; sea level to near sea level. Guangdong, Taiwan, Zhejiang [Japan, Korea; Micronesia].
  "Synonym": "*Oldenlandia strigulosa* Bartling ex Candolle, Prodr. 4: 427. 1830; *Hedyotis coreana* H. Léveillé; *H. taiwanensis* S. F. Huang &amp; J. Murata [*\"taiwanense\"*]; *Thecagonum strigulosum* (Bartling ex Candolle) Terrell &amp; H. Robinson.
**55. 单花耳草（新拟）**

Hedyotis taiwanensis S. F. Huang et J. Murata in Taiwania 32: 214. 1987, as ‘taiwanense’.

平卧或外倾草本；枝从茎基部发出，具棱。叶对生，厚纸质，卵形，长8-12毫米，宽4-6毫米，顶端渐狭，钝头，基部钝或楔形，近无柄或具极短的柄，生于枝上部的叶变小成苞片状；托叶三角形，长1毫米，被硬毛。花单生于枝上部的叶腋，花梗结果时长9-21毫米；花萼长2毫米，萼檐裂片4或5，卵状三角形，外面被硬毛；花冠长1.7毫米，裂片4，三角状卵形，长1毫米，外面被硬毛，里面被长疏毛；雄蕊4，生于冠管基部，花丝长0.2毫米，药隔突出；花柱长5毫米，柱头微缺或2裂。果椭圆形，长5毫米，直径2.5毫米，成熟时顶部室背开裂；种子黑褐色，具棱和小窝孔。花期不详。

仅见于台湾屏东和台东；生于海边砂地或荒地。模式标本采自台湾屏东。

本种标本未见，是根据原种说明和图叙述。
