紫斑兰属",
43.**Hemipiliopsis** Y. B. Luo & S. C. Chen Novon. 13: 450. 2003.",

> One species: SW China, NE India.

## Description
Herbs, terrestrial. Tubers ellipsoid to subellipsoid, fleshy; roots filiform. Stem erect, spotted with purple, usually with 1 or rarely 2 leaves near base. Leaves elliptic to ovate-oblong, base shortly petiolate and sheathing stem, apex acute or acuminate. Inflorescence a terminal raceme, with several to many well-spaced flowers; peduncle, rachis, floral bracts, pedicel, and ovary all spotted with purple. Flowers resupinate, all parts apart from lip pale purple, spotted with purple. Dorsal sepal connivent with petals and forming a hood, erect, obovate; lateral sepals spreading or reflexed, obliquely ovate-elliptic. Petals ovate; lip subovate to flabellate, base spurred, apex 3-lobed; spur conic, abruptly contracted near tip and then swollen to form a globose apex. Column short, with 2 lateral appendages (1 on either side of anther); anther sessile, erect, with 2 parallel locules; rostellum shallowly 3-lobed; lateral lobes protruding, not converging; pollinia 2, granular-farinaceous, sectile, each attached by a slender caudicle to a viscidium; viscidia small, naked, borne directly above spur mouth at apices of lateral rostellum lobes; stigma 2-lobed, set in cavity at posterior margin of rostellum. Capsule ellipsoid.
  "Reference": "The sole species was referred initially to *Habenaria*, but it differs from other members of that genus in habit, structure of the stigma, and lack of obvious anther canals. The shallowly 3-lobed rostellum, the orientation of the rostellum lobes, and the positioning of the viscidia appear to distinguish it from *Hemipilia*, while the shape of the lip, the non-converging lateral rostellum lobes, and various vegetative characters distinguish it also from *Brachycorythis*.The sole species was referred initially to *Habenaria*, but it differs from other members of that genus in habit, structure of the stigma, and lack of obvious anther canals. The shallowly 3-lobed rostellum, the orientation of the rostellum lobes, and the positioning of the viscidia appear to distinguish it from *Hemipilia*, while the shape of the lip, the non-converging lateral rostellum lobes, and various vegetative characters distinguish it also from *Brachycorythis*.
