新疆山柳菊",
3.**Hieracium robustum** Fries Nova Acta Regiae Soc. Sci. Upsal. 14: 193. 1848.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, 40-80[-120] cm tall, with thick rhizomes. Stem solitary to few fascicled, basally purple, stout, erect, branched apically, glabrous or basally with sparse to moderate simple hairs, apically and under capitula with sparse to moderate stellate hairs. Stem leaves (10-)25-50[-80], basal and lower stem leaves absent at anthesis. Middle stem leaves sessile, ovate-lanceolate to narrowly elliptic-lanceolate, 5-9 × 1.5-3 cm, subglaucescent, abaxially pale green and reticulately veined, margin or only abaxial veins with moderate to sparse simple hairs and sparse to moderate stellate hairs, base cordate to rounded, margin entire to deeply dentate, apex acute to shortly acuminate. Upper stem leaves similar to middle stem leaves but gradually smaller. Synflorescence corymbiform to long paniculiform, with (10-)15-50(-80) capitula. Involucre campanulate, (0.9-)1-1.2 cm. Phyllaries in few rows, green or dark green, abaxially with moderate stellate hairs, apex obtuse to acute; outer phyllaries lanceolate, linear, or broadly linear, 2-3 × ca. 1 mm; middle phyllaries lanceolate, 4-7 × ca. 1 mm; inner phyllaries lanceolate, 0.8-1.2 cm × ca. 1 mm. Florets yellow. Achene blackish brown, cylindric, ca. 3 mm, with 10 ribs. Pappus pale yellow, ca. 6 mm. Fl. and fr. Jun-Oct. 2*n* = 27, 36.
  "Statistics": "Grasslands, slopes; ?1700-2100 m. Xinjiang [India, Kazakhstan, Russia; SW Asia, SE Europe].
