无配膜叶铁角蕨",
15.**Hymenasplenium apogamum** (N. Murakami & Hatanaka) Nakaike New Fl. Japan. 841. 1992.",

> As circumscribed, *Hymenasplenium apogamum* is an aggregate species, which, according to Cheng and Murakami (J. Plant Res. 111: 496. 1998), is both morphologically and cytologically variable. In China (Yunnan), it consists of sexual diploids (*n* = 39), sexual tetraploids (*n* = 78), and the more widespread agamosporous triploids (*“n”* = 2*n* = 117). In their 1998 publication (loc. cit.), Cheng and Murakami also recognized another triploid agamosporous taxon (*“H. laterepens*,*“* nom. nud) related to *H. apogamum* but differing in its more triangular leaves. As the distribution and relationships of the Asian *“unilaterale”* group are not well understood, the present treatment only reflects the current state of limited knowledge.

## Description
Plants 25-40 cm tall. Rhizomes shortly creeping, 2-3 mm in diam., apex densely scaly; scales dark brown, narrowly triangular, entire; phyllopodia distinct, ca. 2 mm tall, 2-3 mm apart. Fronds grayish green when dry, herbaceous; lamina 1-pinnate, narrowly triangular to lanceolate, 10-20 × 3-5 cm, widest in basal 1/3, gradually narrowing toward apex, glabrous; stipe shiny, purple, 10-25 × 0.05-0.15 cm, subglabrous, base sparsely scaly; rachis shiny and purplish abaxially, adaxial side grooved and with 2 grayish green narrow wings; pinnae almost sessile to shortly stalked with rachis color extending via stipicel onto base of costa abaxially, 15-25 pairs, alternate, spreading or deflexed near stipe, quadrangular-trapeziform, 2-3.5 × 0.6-1 cm, base asymmetrical, acroscopic side truncate and parallel to rachis, subauriculate, basiscopic side attenuate-cuneate, with 1/3-1/2 cut away, acroscopic margin serrate to sinuate, teeth not retuse, pinna apex obtuse to subacute. Veins forking and terminating in marginal teeth, only 1 or 2 basal basiscopic veins lacking. Sori linear, 3-4 mm, medial; indusia brownish, linear, membranous, entire, opening toward costa.

> Usually terrestrial along streams, broad-leaved forests, shaded areas, wet places; 200-500 m (in Taiwan). Taiwan, Yunnan [Japan (Ryukyu Islands), Laos, Thailand, Vietnam].
  "Synonym": "*Asplenium apogamum* N. Murakami &amp; Hatanaka, J. Fac. Sci. Univ. Tokyo, Sect. 3, Bot. 14: 193. 1988.
