密腺小连翘",
38.**Hypericum seniawinii** Maximowicz",

> *Hypericum seniawinii* and the very closely related *H. hengshanense* appear to be southeastern derivatives of the *H. pedunculatum* form of *H. przewalskii*. *Hypericum seniawinii* differs from *H. hengshanense* in lacking glandular auricles on the leaves but sometimes bears these on the bracts and bracteoles, and the leaves are usually relatively narrower than in that species; but in both species the leaves become markedly narrower toward the south of their respective ranges. *Hypericum lianzhouense* and *H. lianzhouense* var. *guangdongense* fall within the range of variation and area of distribution of *H. seniawinii* in most respects, but the relative style length cited for the species (ca. 4 × as long as the ovary) is longer than that obtained from previous observations.

## Description
Herbs, perennial, (0.15-)0.3-0.6(-1.15) m tall, erect from creeping, rooting and sometimes branching base; stems usually single, sometimes branched above, branches virgate to curved-ascending. Stems terete, eglandular. Leaves sessile or with broad \"petiole\" to 1 mm; blade oblong to oblong-lanceolate, (1.5-)2-5.2 cm × 5-13(-16) mm, thickly papery, abaxially paler and rarely minutely papillose (Guangdong), not or ± densely glaucous; laminar gland dots pale, dense, rather large; intramarginal glands all black or the occasional one pale, dense; main lateral veins 3(or 4)-paired, tertiary reticulation dense; base subcordate-amplexicaul to broadly or narrowly cuneate, apex obtuse to rounded. Inflorescence 5-50-flowered, from 1-3 nodes, dense, nearly flat-topped to broadly pyramidal; flowering branches from up to 9 nodes below (often with a gap of sterile nodes), the whole then cylindric; bracts and bracteoles ovate to linear-lanceolate, entire or occasionally with basal glandular cilia or rudimentary auricles. Flowers 0.9-1.5(to ca. 2) cm in diam., conic to stellate or recurved; buds ellipsoid, apex acute to obtuse. Sepals free, erect, subequal to equal, oblong-lanceolate to linear-lanceolate, 2.5-5(-7) × 1-2 mm; laminar glands pale, lines to streaks; marginal glands all black or rarely a few pale, in regular or interrupted row, sessile or slightly prominent, margin entire or subentire, apex acute; veins (3 or)5. Petals ?bright yellow, narrowly oblong to narrowly oblanceolate-elliptic, 7-10(-14) × 2-3 mm, 2-3 × as long as sepals; laminar glands pale, streaks to dots, or absent; marginal glands black, distal, sessile or more proximal immersed; margin subentire. Stamens 24 to ca. 55, apparently 3-fascicled, longest 5-12 mm, slightly shorter than petals. Ovary narrowly ovoid, 1.5-3 × 0.7-1.3 mm; styles 3, (2.5-)4-10(-12.5) mm, 1.5-3(-4) × as long as ovary, divaricate-incurved. Capsule ovoid, 5-6 × 4-5 mm, exceeding sepals. Seeds 0.5-0.8 mm; testa finely foveolate. Fl. (Jun-)Jul-Sep, fr. Aug-Nov.

> Slopes, grasslands, roadsides; (100-)500-1600(-2000) m. Anhui, Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Henan, Hubei, Hunan, Jiangxi, Sichuan, Zhejiang [N Vietnam].
  "Synonym": "*Hypericum lateriflorum* H. Léveillé; *H. lianzhouense* L. H. Wu &amp; D. P. Yang; *H. lianzhouense* subsp. *guangdongense* L. H. Wu &amp; D. P. Yang.
