台粤小连翘",
54.**Hypericum taihezanense** Sasaki ex S. Suzuki",

> In Fl. Taiwan (2: 640. 1976), *Hypericum taihezanense* was included in *H. pseudopetiolatum* R. Keller because its variation fell within the range of variation of that species in Japan. The work of T. Kato on the *H. pseudopetiolatum* group, however, has clarified the situation in Japan, and the Taiwanese population, with its entire sepals and broadly ovoid to subglobose capsule, seems to be a distinct southern species related to the Japanese *H. kiusianum* Koidzumi.

## Description
Herbs, perennial, 15-40 cm tall, ascending from creeping and rooting base; stems ± cespitose, branched above. Stems terete, eglandular. Leaves sessile or with petiole to 0.7 mm; blade triangular-lanceolate or ovate to obovate, 0.4-1.7(-2) cm × 2-6(-10) mm; ± thinly papery, abaxially paler or glaucous; laminar gland dots pale only, dense, varying in size; intramarginal glands black, rather dense; main lateral veins 3- or 4-paired, tertiary reticulation rather dense, often marked; base cordate-amplexicaul to cuneate, margin entire and plane, apex rounded. Inflorescence 1- to ca. 10-flowered, from 1 or 2 nodes; flowering branches from up to 2 nodes below, the whole laxly flat-topped to cylindric; bracts and bracteoles reduced leaflike, margin entire. Flowers 5-10 mm in diam., concave; buds ellipsoid, apex obtuse. Sepals free, erect in bud, ascending in fruit, subequal to unequal, lanceolate to narrowly oblong or linear, 3-5.5 × 1-1.5 mm; laminar glands all pale, streaks and dots; intramarginal glands black or those toward base pale, regular, ± dense; margin entire, apex obtuse to rounded; veins 3-5. Petals mid-yellow, obovate-oblong to narrowly obovate, (3-)5-6(-8) × (1-)2-3.5 mm, (0.7-)1.2-2 × as long as sepals; laminar glands pale, few, dots or streaks, distal, or absent; marginal glands black, sessile or on cilia; margin with sessile or stalked glands near apex or around upper half (sometimes few). Stamens ca. 30, apparently 3-fascicled, longest ca. 4 mm, 0.8-0.9 × as long as petals. Ovary broadly ovoid; styles 3, ca. 1.5 mm, ca. 0.5 × as long as ovary, divergent to ascending. Capsule broadly ovoid to subglobose, 4-5(-6.5) × 4-4.5 mm, 0.8-1.2 × as long as sepals. Seeds dark brown, 0.5-0.6 mm; testa finely scalariform-foveolate. Fl. Apr-Jul(-Aug), fr. (Jun-)Jul-Sep.

> Forest margins, mountain slopes, grassy places, open ground, roadsides; 1000-3000 m. Guangdong, Taiwan (except extreme south) [Indonesia (Sumatra), Malaysia (Sabah), Philippines (Luzon)].
  "Synonym": "*Hypericum pseudopetiolatum* R. Keller var. *taihezanense* (Sasaki ex S. Suzuki) Y. Kimura.
