多蕊金丝桃",
15.**Hypericum choisyanum** Wallich ex N. Robson",

> The populations of Yunnan and Myanmar are isolated from those of the main Himalayan range by a considerable distance. In the easternmost locality (Fengguan Shan), the leaves are nearly elliptic with a rounded apex.

## Description
Shrubs, (0.3-)1-2 m tall, bushy; branches erect to arching. Stems 4-lined and ancipitous when young, eventually terete; internodes 1.5-5.5 cm, usually shorter than leaves. Leaves with petiole 2-4 mm; blade triangular-lanceolate or rarely triangular-ovate to ovate, 2.5-8.8 × 1-4.2 cm, thickly papery, abaxially paler but not glaucous; laminar glands streaks and dots; abaxial glands absent; main lateral veins 3-5-paired, lower pairs sometimes free, tertiary reticulation marked and rather dense to nearly invisible; base broadly cuneate to rounded or subcordate, apex acute or acuminate to obtuse or rarely rounded. Inflorescence 1-7-flowered, from apical node, nearly flat-topped; bracts narrowly elliptic to leaflike, persistent. Pedicels 3.5-11 mm. Flowers 4-7 cm in diam., shallowly to deeply cupped; buds ovoid, apex sharply acute to obtuse. Sepals spreading to recurved, unequal, narrowly to very broadly elliptic, 7-8 (or longer if markedly leaflike) × 2-10 mm; laminar glands lines, interrupted toward apex, margin entire, apex acute to apiculate or rarely obtuse. Petals deep golden yellow, sometimes tinged red, broadly obovate to obovate-circular, 1.6-3 × 1.5-2.2 cm, 1.7-2.2 × as long as sepals; margin entire, eglandular; apiculus rounded. Stamen fascicles each with 60-80 stamens, longest 6-10 mm, 0.35-0.4 × as long as petals. Ovary ± broadly ovoid, (5-)6-8(-9) × 3.5-5.5 mm; styles 3-5 mm, 0.35-0.7 × as long as ovary, free, outcurved near apex. Capsule ovoid-conic to subglobose, (0.9-)1.4-1.9 × 0.8-1.2 cm. Seeds dark brown, 0.7-1 mm, carinate or shallowly winged; testa linear-reticulate to linear-foveolate. Fl. Apr-Oct, fr. Aug-Oct.

> Grassy or rocky slopes, cliffs, thickets, *Rhododendron* forests; 1600-2800 m (Yunnan), 3100-4800 m (Xizang). C and NW Yunnan (Gongshan, Jingdong), S Xizang [Bhutan, NE India (W Bengal, Sikkim), Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan].
