白花猫儿菊",
5.**Hypochaeris albiflora** (Kuntze) Azevêdo-Gon?alves & Matzenbacher Compositae Newslett. 42: 3. 2005.",

## Description
Herbs 20-50 cm tall, perennial, rosulate, with a taproot. Stem erect, apically sparsely branched, glabrous or sparsely hirsute, leafy. Rosette leaves narrowly elliptic to oblanceolate, 4-10 × 1-5 cm, undivided with sinuate-dentate margin to pinnatisect with entire margin, both surfaces glabrous to sparsely villous, base narrow, apex obtuse to acute; lateral and terminal lobes linear-lanceolate if present. Stem leaves few, smaller, pinnatisect with few lobes or undivided and linear-lanceolate, otherwise similar to rosette leaves. Synflorescence corymbiform, with few to several capitula. Capitula with usually 20-40 florets; peduncle long. Involucre cylindric to narrowly campanulate, 0.8-1.2 × 0.3-0.4 cm at anthesis, 1.5-1.8 cm in fruit. Phyllaries glabrous; outer phyllaries lanceolate; inner phyllaries linear-lanceolate. Florets white, slightly longer than involucre. Achene brown; body fusiform, ca. 4 mm, ribbed and muricate; beak capillaceous, 4-5 mm. Pappus 7-8 mm, all bristles plumose. Fl and fr. Apr-May. 2*n* = 8.
  "Reference": "*Hypochaeris albiflora* has also been introduced to S Africa, E Australia, and SE North America.*Hypochaeris albiflora* has also been introduced to S Africa, E Australia, and SE North America.
  "Statistics": "Grassy areas of parks and urban areas, roadsides; near sea level to 200 m. Naturalized in N Taiwan [native to SE South America].
  "Synonym": "*Hypochaeris brasiliensis* (Lessing) Bentham &amp; J. D. Hooker ex Grisebach var. *albiflora* Kuntze, Revis. Gen. Pl. 3(3): 159. 1898; *H. microcephala* (Schultz Bipontinus) Cabrera var. *albiflora* (Kuntze) Cabrera.
