藏药木属",
38.**Hyptianthera** Wight & Arnott Prodr. Fl. Ind. Orient. 1: 399. 1834.",

> One or a few species: China, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Laos, Myanmar, Nepal, Thailand, Vietnam; one species in China.

## Description
Shrubs or small trees, unarmed. Raphides absent. Leaves opposite, decussate, apparently without domatia; stipules persistent, interpetiolar, generally triangular with apices often twisted together at 180° in bud. Inflorescences axillary, glomerulate, several flowered, sessile, bracteate. Flowers sessile, apparently bisexual or reportedly at least sometimes unisexual, fragrant. Calyx limb 4- or 5-lobed. Corolla white, shortly funnelform to subrotate, inside pubescent in throat; lobes 4 or 5, convolute in bud. Stamens 4 or 5, inserted in corolla tube, included or partially exserted; filaments short or reduced; anthers dorsifixed, pubescent on base and outer surface, with connective apically prolonged and widened. Ovary 2-celled, ovules 6-10 in each cell on axile placentas; stigma 2-lobed with lobes oblong and pubescent, exserted. Fruit baccate, fleshy, ovoid or subglobose, at least sometimes black, with calyx limb persistent; seeds several, medium-sized, flattened, angular, with testa thickly fibrous striate, with hilum terminal and rather broad; endosperm fleshy; embryo small; cotyledons ovate, flat; radicle terete.
  "Reference": "Robbrecht and Puff (Bot. Jahrb. Syst. 108: 126-127, table 8. 1986) described the flowers as unisexual, but the corresponding condition of the plants (e.g., dioecious, polygamo-dioecious) is not noted and the specimens and figures seen seem to have bisexual flowers. W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(1): 386. 1999) did not mention unisexual flowers for this species, and the accompanying figure apparently shows bisexual flowers (p. 387, t. 102). He described the stipules as caducous, but this has not been seen on any specimens of *Hyptianthera* nor reported by other authors, and it contradicts the figure. He also described the ovules as pendulous from the top of the cell, but Robbrecht and Puff (loc. cit.: 86-91), in a detailed morphological survey focused on gynoecium characters, described them as borne on axile placentas.Robbrecht and Puff (Bot. Jahrb. Syst. 108: 126-127, table 8. 1986) described the flowers as unisexual, but the corresponding condition of the plants (e.g., dioecious, polygamo-dioecious) is not noted and the specimens and figures seen seem to have bisexual flowers. W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(1): 386. 1999) did not mention unisexual flowers for this species, and the accompanying figure apparently shows bisexual flowers (p. 387, t. 102). He described the stipules as caducous, but this has not been seen on any specimens of *Hyptianthera* nor reported by other authors, and it contradicts the figure. He also described the ovules as pendulous from the top of the cell, but Robbrecht and Puff (loc. cit.: 86-91), in a detailed morphological survey focused on gynoecium characters, described them as borne on axile placentas.
**57. 藏药木属 Hyptianthera Wight et Arn.**

Wight et Arn. Prodr. 399. 1834; Hook. f. in Benth. et Hook. f. Gen. Pl. 2: 94. 1873; K. Schum. in Engl. u. Prantl, Nat. Pflanzenfam. IV (4): 80. 1891.

灌木或小乔木。叶对生，具柄；托叶在叶柄间，三角形，渐尖，宿存。花小，白色，无花梗，组成腋生的密伞花序，有小苞片；萼管短，陀螺形，裂片5，相等或不相等，渐尖，宿存；花冠管短，裂片4-5，扩展，旋转排列；雄蕊4-5枚，着生在冠管上，无花丝，花药长圆形，内藏，钝，背着，基部和背部有柔毛；花盘肿胀，环状；子房2室，花柱短，内藏，柱头2枚，大，长圆形，直立，有长硬毛，胚珠每室6-10颗，由室顶下垂。浆果卵形或球形，2室，有6-10颗种子；种子由室顶下垂，覆瓦状排列，扁平和有角，种脐顶生，稍宽，种皮厚，纤维状及有皱摺，胚乳肉质；胚小，子叶卵形，平，胚根圆柱状。

2种，分布于亚洲南部至东南部。我国有1种，分布于云南和西藏。

本属模式种：藏药木 Hyptianthera stricta (Roxb.) Wight et Arn.
