长齿木蓝",
14.**Indigofera dolichochaete** Craib Notes Roy. Bot. Gard. Edinburgh. 8: 64. 1913.",

## Description
Shrubs, erect. Stems with spreading short and white medi-fixed 2-branched trichomes and long gland-tipped trichomes. Stipules linear, 6-7 mm. Leaves 10-12 cm, 11- or 13-foliolate; petiole and rachis with gland-tipped trichomes and short white medifixed trichomes; petiole 1.5-2 cm; stipels setaceous, ca. 1 mm; petiolules with spreading white medifixed trichomes; leaf-let blades elliptic to oblong, 1.8-3 × 1.1-2.2 cm, both surfaces with spreading white basifixed or subbasifixed trichomes, mid-vein abaxially prominent and adaxially compressed, base rounded, apex obtuse and with a ca. 1 mm mucro. Racemes 12-16 cm, slender; peduncle and rachis with dense spreading medi-fixed trichomes and sparse glandular trichomes; bracts linear, 3-4 mm, caducous, abaxially with spreading subbasifixed tri-chomes and sparsely glandular trichomes. Pedicel ca. 2 mm, with spreading medifixed trichomes. Calyx 3-4.5 mm, outside with spreading white medifixed trichomes; tube 0.5-1 mm; teeth linear, 3-4 mm, margin sparsely glandular. Corolla purple; standard elliptic, 6-7 mm, outside with dense appressed white and soft medifixed trichomes, apical mucro ca. 0.2 mm; wings and keel outside with appressed trichomes. Stamens 5.5-6.5 mm; anthers glabrous. Ovary hairy, with 4 or 5 ovules. Legume linear, cylindric, ca. 3 cm, hairy. Fl. Jul-Aug, fr. Aug-Sep.
  "Statistics": "● Slopes; 1300-2000 m. S Sichuan, Yunnan.
  "Synonym": "*Indigofera mollis* Franchet (1889), not Ecklon &amp; Zeyher (1834).
