大叶木蓝",
52.**Indigofera megaphylla** X. F. Gao Novon. 19: 160. 2009.",

## Description
Shrubs, 1-2 m tall, erect. Stems with dense spreading brownish 2-branched trichomes with equally long arms. Stip-ules narrowly triangular, 5-6 mm. Leaves 12-15 cm, (1 or)3- or 5(or 7)-foliolate; petiole and rachis terete, with sparse brownish 2-branched trichomes; petiole 3-5 cm; stipels 2-3 mm; petio-lules 3-4 mm; leaflet blades oblong, ovate-oblong, or obovate-oblong, 5-8 × 4-6 cm, abaxially with long white 2-branched trichomes, adaxially with short spreading brownish 2-branched trichomes, primary to tertiary venation markedly impressed adaxially and prominent abaxially, secondary veins 9-14 on each side of midvein, base rounded to cuneate, apex obtuse to emarginate. Racemes 5-13 cm; peduncle and rachis with very dense spreading brown 2-branched trichomes; peduncle 3-5 mm; bracts ovate, ca. 2.5 × 1.2 mm, abaxially with appressed trichomes. Pedicel 0.5-1 mm. Calyx 2.5-3 mm, outside with dense spreading trichomes; tube ca. 1 mm; teeth narrowly trian-gular, 1.5-2 mm. Corolla purple, 7-8 mm; standard ovate-ob-long, 4-4.5 mm wide, outside with spreading white trichomes; wings narrowly oblong, 1.6-1.8 mm wide, margin ciliate; keel densely spreading white pubescent distally and along upper margin, spur ca. 1 mm. Stamens 5.5-6 mm; anthers glabrous. Ovary densely pubescent with white and brown hairs. Legume (3-)4-5 cm, with dense spreading gray or pale brown tri-chomes; endocarp not blotched. Seeds 9-12 per legume, dark brown. Fl. Apr-May, fr. May-Jul.
  "Statistics": "● Scrub, trailsides; 1200-1600 m. S Yunnan (Shiping, Yuanjiang).
