单花山胡椒属",
6.**Iteadaphne** Blume Mus. Bot. 1: 365. 1851.",

> Three species: China, India, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Thailand, Vietnam; one species in China.

## Description
Small trees or shrubs, evergreen, dioecious. Leaves alternate, strongly trinerved or triplinerved. Pseudoumbels 1-flowered, a few together along a slender leafless short shoot with terminal bud, not developing into a leafy shoot after anthesis, each pseudo-umbel with 1 bract and 2 involucral bracts; peduncle subsessile or sessile. Flowers unisexual or polygamous. Perianth tube very short; perianth segments 6, subequal. Stamens 6-9; filaments of 1st and 2nd whorls eglandular but those of 3rd whorl or sometimes also of 2nd whorl 2-glandular; glands always orbicular-reniform and subsessile; anthers 2-celled; cells introrse. Ovary ovoid or subglobose; style terete; stigma slightly dilated, peltate or 3-fid. Fruits drupelike; perianth cup discoid.
  "Reference": "This genus, closely related to *Lindera*, is characterized by the 1-flowered pseudoumbels and 2-celled anthers. It may be an unnatural group if the reduction of multi-flowered pseudoumbels to 1-flowered pseudoumbels in *Lindera* has taken place more than once. Moreover, *Iteadaphne confusa* Blume, nom. illeg. superfl. (the type of *Iteadaphne*), with its opposite or subopposite, pinnately veined leaves, is perhaps not closely related to *I. caudata* and (from Vietnam) *L. spicata* Kostermans, which have alternate, trinerved or triplinerved leaves. See van der Werff (Blumea 46: 137. 2001).This genus, closely related to *Lindera*, is characterized by the 1-flowered pseudoumbels and 2-celled anthers. It may be an unnatural group if the reduction of multi-flowered pseudoumbels to 1-flowered pseudoumbels in *Lindera* has taken place more than once. Moreover, *Iteadaphne confusa* Blume, nom. illeg. superfl. (the type of *Iteadaphne*), with its opposite or subopposite, pinnately veined leaves, is perhaps not closely related to *I. caudata* and (from Vietnam) *L. spicata* Kostermans, which have alternate, trinerved or triplinerved leaves. See van der Werff (Blumea 46: 137. 2001).
