戟叶小苦荬",
8.**Ixeridium sagittarioides** (C. B. Clarke) Pak & Kawano Mem. Fac. Sci. Kyoto Univ., Ser. Biol. 15: 48. 1992.",

## Description
Herbs 15-35[-55] cm tall, perennial, rosulate. Stem solitary, erect, branched from basal half or higher up, sparsely hairy. Rosette leaves petiolate; petiole 3-10[-30] cm, narrowly winged, margin entire or sinuate-dentate; leaf blade pentagonal or triangular, 2-8 × 1.5-6 cm, pinnately lobed, margin sinuate-dentate; lateral and terminal lobes triangular with an acute apex. Stem leaves none or few, similar to basal leaves but smaller and less incised or undivided. Synflorescence corymbiform, with some to many capitula. Capitula with 8-16 florets; peduncle wiry. Involucre narrowly cylindric, 7-8 mm. Outer phyllaries ovate to lanceolate, apex acute; inner phyllaries ca. 8[-12], apex acute. Florets yellow. Achene brown [or dark purple, 3-4 mm], narrowly ovoid, apex attenuate into a slender 0.5-1 mm beak. Pappus white, 3-4 mm. Fl. Mar.
  "Reference": "Insufficiently known and of unclear relationship, this taxon is probably not a member of *Ixeridium* and perhaps not even of subtribe Crepidinae but of subtribe Lactucinae.Insufficiently known and of unclear relationship, this taxon is probably not a member of *Ixeridium* and perhaps not even of subtribe Crepidinae but of subtribe Lactucinae.
  "Statistics": "Grasslands on mountain slopes; 1900-2000 m. Yunnan [Bhutan, N India, N Myanmar, Nepal, N Thailand].
  "Synonym": "*Lactuca sagittarioides* C. B. Clarke, Compos. Ind. 265. 1876; *Ixeris sagittarioides* (C. B. Clarke) Stebbins; *Mycelis sagittarioides* (C. B. Clarke) Sennikov.
