钩毛草属",
41.**Kelloggia** Torrey ex Bentham & J. D. Hooker Gen. Pl. 2: 137. 1873.",

> Two species: disjunct, one in China and Bhutan, the other in W North America (Mexico, United States); one species in China.

## Description
Herbs, perennial, sometimes slightly woody at base; rootstock slender, with short rhizomatous and somewhat woody branches and with ascending or erect stems. Raphides present. Leaves opposite, decussate, subsessile, without domatia; stipules persistent, interpetiolar, hardly fused to petioles, triangular to linear or ± irregularly divided and often mutifid to fimbriate. Inflorescences thyrsoid, with terminal and axillary branches at uppermost nodes, pedunculate cymes often with umbelliform flower groups, not rarely with new axes developing and older axes elongating making inflorescences expansive, lax, few to many flowered and bracteate; uppermost bracts often reduced to multifid or fimbriate stipules. Flowers pedicellate, bisexual, monomorphic. Calyx teeth 4 or 5, narrowly lanceolate, hardly fused at base. Corolla white to pink or red, funnelform, divided to ca. 1/2 into 4 or 5 lobes, glabrous inside and valvate in bud. Stamens 4 or 5, inserted in corolla throat, finally slightly exserted; filaments flattened; anthers dorsifixed near base. Ovary inferior, densely covered with hooked trichomes, 2-celled, ovules 1 in each cell, erect, basal; style with 2 short, linear stigmas, exserted. Fruit with calyx teeth ± persistent, schizocarpous, dividing into 2 oblong to ellipsoid, leathery and indehiscent mericarps, densely covered with hooked trichomes; each mericarp with 1 medium-sized, ellipsoid and plano-convex seed; endosperm fleshy; embryo large; cotyledons leaflike; radicle hypogeous.
  "Reference": "In general aspect, *Kelloggia* resembles *Galium*, particularly with respect to the inferior ovary (hypanthium) developing into dry schizocarps covered with hooked trichomes. Presumably, these fruit disperse similarly to those of *Galium* as \"stick-tights,\" by attaching to animals. In contrast to *Galium* and other Rubiinae, *Kelloggia* has 3-colpate (and not polycolpate) pollen grains, calyx teeth, and not leaflike interpetiolar stipules, making sterile plants resemble *Nertera* and *Neanotis*. In spite of these differences, Robbrecht and Manen (Syst. &amp; Geogr. Pl. 76: 85-146. 2006) have transferred *Kelloggia* from the tribe Paederieae to the tribe Rubieae as a monotypic and basal subtribe Kelloggiinae. We concur with this transfer but not with the inclusion of the totally different *Theligonum* into the Rubieae, which should be left in a separate tribe, Theligoneae (see also Bremer &amp; Eriksson, Int. J. Pl. Sci. 170: 766-793. 2009). *Kelloggia* and all other Chinese Rubieae taxa have been briefly discussed and keyed out under *Galium* in the present volume.In general aspect, *Kelloggia* resembles *Galium*, particularly with respect to the inferior ovary (hypanthium) developing into dry schizocarps covered with hooked trichomes. Presumably, these fruit disperse similarly to those of *Galium* as \"stick-tights,\" by attaching to animals. In contrast to *Galium* and other Rubiinae, *Kelloggia* has 3-colpate (and not polycolpate) pollen grains, calyx teeth, and not leaflike interpetiolar stipules, making sterile plants resemble *Nertera* and *Neanotis*. In spite of these differences, Robbrecht and Manen (Syst. &amp; Geogr. Pl. 76: 85-146. 2006) have transferred *Kelloggia* from the tribe Paederieae to the tribe Rubieae as a monotypic and basal subtribe Kelloggiinae. We concur with this transfer but not with the inclusion of the totally different *Theligonum* into the Rubieae, which should be left in a separate tribe, Theligoneae (see also Bremer &amp; Eriksson, Int. J. Pl. Sci. 170: 766-793. 2009). *Kelloggia* and all other Chinese Rubieae taxa have been briefly discussed and keyed out under *Galium* in the present volume.
**82．钩毛草属 Kelloggia Torrey ex Benth.**

Torrey ex Benth. in Benth. et Hook. f. Gen. Pl. 2: 137. 1873; K. Schum. in Engl. u. Prantl, Nat. Pflanzenfam. IV (4): 132. 1891.

纤细直立草本，无毛或被柔毛；茎纤细，基部近木质，扭转；枝纤细，直，圆柱形。叶对生，无柄；托叶在叶柄间。花细小，具梗，排成聚伞或伞形花序；萼管倒卵形，萼檐裂片4-5，宿存；雄蕊与萼檐裂片同数，生于花冠喉部，花丝扁平，花药背着，靠近基部，线形，突出；花盘不明显；子房2室，花柱线形，有2条短线形的刺；胚珠每室1颗，从基部直立。果小，长圆形，革质，被钩毛，分裂为两个平凸形的分果瓣；种子长圆形，外果皮薄，胚乳肉质，胚大型；子叶叶状，胚根向下，圆柱形。

属模式：K. galioides Torrey ex Benth.
<p style='text-indent:28px'>本属有2种，1种产美洲，1种产我国。
