滇南粗叶木",
3.**Lasianthus austroyunnanensis** H. Zhu Syst. & Geogr. Pl. 72: 96. 2002.",

## Description
Shrubs, to 1 m tall; branchlets densely appressed hirsute. Petiole 5-8 mm, hirsute; leaf blade papery to membranous, ovate-elliptic, 4-6 × 2-3 cm, glabrous adaxially, appressed hirsute on midrib and nerves abaxially, base acute or obtuse, apex cuspidate-acuminate or acuminate; lateral veins 4 or 5 pairs; nervules subparallel; nerves and nervules elevated conspicuously abaxially; stipules ?persistent, triangular, minute, hirsute. Inflorescences glomerulate, sessile; bracts minute, hirsute. Flowers sessile. Calyx hirsute; hypanthium portion campanulate, ca. 1 mm; limb 1-1.5 mm, toothed; teeth 5. Corolla 8-10 mm, pubescent outside, villous inside. Fruit globose, 4-5 mm in diam., subglabrous; pyrenes 5.
  "Reference": "This species has been often misidentified as *Lasianthus microphyllus* Elmer. After examining type specimens of *L. microphyllus* from the Philippines (*Elmer 13790*, isotypes in A, CAS, E, K, L, MO), it is clear that the Chinese populations differ from *L. microphyllus* by having appressed-hirsute hairs on the branches, leaf midrib and nerves abaxially, and the outside of the calyx and corolla. The leaves are ovate-elliptic with a cuspidate-acuminate or acuminate apex. In contrast, *L. microphyllus* has subglabrous or glabrous branches, leaves, and flowers, and the leaves are ovate with a caudate apex. Therefore, the Chinese taxon represents a separate species. The name *L. microphyllus* has also been sometimes misapplied in Taiwan to plants of *L. micranthus*.This species has been often misidentified as *Lasianthus microphyllus* Elmer. After examining type specimens of *L. microphyllus* from the Philippines (*Elmer 13790*, isotypes in A, CAS, E, K, L, MO), it is clear that the Chinese populations differ from *L. microphyllus* by having appressed-hirsute hairs on the branches, leaf midrib and nerves abaxially, and the outside of the calyx and corolla. The leaves are ovate-elliptic with a cuspidate-acuminate or acuminate apex. In contrast, *L. microphyllus* has subglabrous or glabrous branches, leaves, and flowers, and the leaves are ovate with a caudate apex. Therefore, the Chinese taxon represents a separate species. The name *L. microphyllus* has also been sometimes misapplied in Taiwan to plants of *L. micranthus*.
  "Statistics": "● Forests, shaded and wet places; 1000-1300 m. Taiwan, Yunnan.
