粗梗粗叶木",
4b.**Lasianthus biermannii subsp. crassipedunculatus** C. Y. Wu & H. Zhu Acta Phytotax. Sin. 32: 75. 1994.",

## Description
Branches densely appressed strigose. Leaf blade with nerves densely appressed strigose abaxially; nervules parallel and conspicuously elevated abaxially. Peduncles robust and usually longer than petioles. Calyx lobes relatively wide and long.
  "Reference": "Rehder (J. Arnold Arbor. 16: 323. 1935) considered that *Henry 11148* from Yunnan province of China, cited by Hutchinson as *Lasianthus biermannii*, matched the type specimen of *L. esquirolii* (*J. Esquirol 648*) from Guizhou province of China, so he reduced *L. esquirolii* to a synonym of *L. biermannii*. However, Ferguson (Notes Roy. Bot. Gard. Edinburgh 32(1): 109. 1972) contended that the type of *L. esquirolii* did not sufficiently match the type of *L. biermannii* and again recognized *L. esquirolii* as a separate species. Many specimens from SE Yunnan and Hainan are closely related to *L. biermannii* but clearly differ from it and have been treated as a geographic subspecies of *L. biermannii*. When the type of *L. esquirolii* was checked, it was concluded that *L. esquirolii* is the same as *L. biermannii* subsp. *crassipedunculatus*.Rehder (J. Arnold Arbor. 16: 323. 1935) considered that *Henry 11148* from Yunnan province of China, cited by Hutchinson as *Lasianthus biermannii*, matched the type specimen of *L. esquirolii* (*J. Esquirol 648*) from Guizhou province of China, so he reduced *L. esquirolii* to a synonym of *L. biermannii*. However, Ferguson (Notes Roy. Bot. Gard. Edinburgh 32(1): 109. 1972) contended that the type of *L. esquirolii* did not sufficiently match the type of *L. biermannii* and again recognized *L. esquirolii* as a separate species. Many specimens from SE Yunnan and Hainan are closely related to *L. biermannii* but clearly differ from it and have been treated as a geographic subspecies of *L. biermannii*. When the type of *L. esquirolii* was checked, it was concluded that *L. esquirolii* is the same as *L. biermannii* subsp. *crassipedunculatus*.
  "Statistics": "● Forests, shaded and wet places; 1000-1700 m. Guizhou, Hainan, Yunnan.
  "Synonym": "*Lasianthus esquirolii* H. Léveillé.
