线叶山黧豆",
11b.**Lathyrus palustris var. linearifolius** Seringe in Candolle Prodr. 2: 371. 1825.",

## Description
Plants puberulent or glabrous, 10-40 cm tall. Stem usually narrowly winged. Leaves with short, simple tendril at apex; stip-ules linear; leaflets 1- or 2(or 3)-paired, linear, rarely elliptic-lanceolate. Raceme 1- or 2(-4)-flowered.
  "Reference": "Plants of *Lathyrus palustris* from the mountains of Sichuan and Yunnan appear as depauperate specimens of the European *L. palustris* var. *palustris*, having reduced numbers of leaflets and flowers. This is morphologically consistent with Seringe’s *L. palustris* var. *linearifolius* from Denmark and Switzerland, but it is unclear if these are convergent traits or represent a genuine disjunction. Pending molecular evidence, we treat these SW Chinese specimens under *L. palustris* var. *lineari-folius*. Specimens of *L. quinquenervius* are sometimes labeled *L. palus-tris* var. *linearifolius*, but *L. quinquenervius* is a far larger plant with parallel veins in the leaflets and linear, acute stipules with a falcate basal spur.Plants of *Lathyrus palustris* from the mountains of Sichuan and Yunnan appear as depauperate specimens of the European *L. palustris* var. *palustris*, having reduced numbers of leaflets and flowers. This is morphologically consistent with Seringe’s *L. palustris* var. *linearifolius* from Denmark and Switzerland, but it is unclear if these are convergent traits or represent a genuine disjunction. Pending molecular evidence, we treat these SW Chinese specimens under *L. palustris* var. *lineari-folius*. Specimens of *L. quinquenervius* are sometimes labeled *L. palus-tris* var. *linearifolius*, but *L. quinquenervius* is a far larger plant with parallel veins in the leaflets and linear, acute stipules with a falcate basal spur.
  "Statistics": "● Sichuan, Yunnan.
