乐土草属",
46.**Leptunis** Steven Bull. Soc. Imp. Naturalistes Moscou. 29(2): 366. 1857.",

> One species: from the SE Caucasus through Afghanistan and C Asia to NW China.

## Description
Herbs, annual, slender. Raphides present. Stems subterete. Leaves and leaflike stipules in whorls of 8-16, sessile, linear to filiform, without domatia. Inflorescences terminal, thyrsoid, below with dichasial and above with monochasial cymes, few flowered when young but usually continuing to grow and becoming many flowered and diffuse; peduncles and pedicels filiform with leaflike bracts and reduced bracteoles. Flowers pedicellate to sessile, bisexual, monomorphic. Calyx limb obsolete. Corolla salmon-orange to pale greenish, tubular to funnelform, glabrous inside; lobes 4, valvate in bud. Stamens 4, inserted in upper part of corolla tube, included or partially exserted; filaments short; anthers dorsifixed, black. Ovary inferior, 2-celled, ovules 1 in each cell, basal; stigmas 2, globose, partially exserted. Fruit schizocarpous; mericarps obovoid, with 1 seed, indehiscent, upper part somewhat incurved, dry, with appressed short and curved hairs.
  "Reference": "Ehrendorfer et al. (Fl. Iranica 176: 1-287. 2005) included the monotypic genus *Leptunis* in *Asperula* sect. *Trichodes* Boissier, based on the following arguments. Segregation of *Leptunis* as a monotypic genus from *Asperula* was based only on its ripe mericarps being rather obovoid and incurved than ellipsoid and straight. Furthermore, *Leptunis* appears closely linked to *Asperula* by *A. seticornis* Boissier. This local species from S Iran has long been recognized as having fruit that are intermediate in shape between *Leptunis* and \"typical\" *Asperula*. Nevertheless, considering the still incomplete DNA-analytical study of SW-Asiatic taxa of *Asperula* and the recent discovery of *Leptunis* in China (Abdusalih et al., Acta Bot. Boreal.-Occid. Sin. 23(4): 674. 2003), the genus is provisionally retained here. It is inserted in the key to Rubieae genera and species found in the present volume under *Galium*.Ehrendorfer et al. (Fl. Iranica 176: 1-287. 2005) included the monotypic genus *Leptunis* in *Asperula* sect. *Trichodes* Boissier, based on the following arguments. Segregation of *Leptunis* as a monotypic genus from *Asperula* was based only on its ripe mericarps being rather obovoid and incurved than ellipsoid and straight. Furthermore, *Leptunis* appears closely linked to *Asperula* by *A. seticornis* Boissier. This local species from S Iran has long been recognized as having fruit that are intermediate in shape between *Leptunis* and \"typical\" *Asperula*. Nevertheless, considering the still incomplete DNA-analytical study of SW-Asiatic taxa of *Asperula* and the recent discovery of *Leptunis* in China (Abdusalih et al., Acta Bot. Boreal.-Occid. Sin. 23(4): 674. 2003), the genus is provisionally retained here. It is inserted in the key to Rubieae genera and species found in the present volume under *Galium*.
