云南羊耳蒜",
33.**Liparis superposita** Ormerod Taiwania. 52: 311. 2007.",

## Description
Herbs, epiphytic. Pseudobulbs borne 3-5 cm apart, arising from base of previous pseudobulb or arising from apex of pseudobulb next to inflorescence, 1-leaved, 2-2.3 cm × 5-6 mm. Leaf 1; petiole 1.7-2.7 cm; blade narrowly elliptic, 8.3-11.5 × 3-4.5 cm, apex acute to subacuminate. Inflorescence terminal, 14.1-17.2 cm, narrowly winged; peduncle 4.1-11.5 cm; rachis ca. 10 cm, laxly 4-6-flowered; floral bracts lanceolate, 5-10.5 mm, apex acute. Flowers green; pedicel and ovary ca. 21 mm, narrowly winged. Dorsal sepal oblong-ligulate, ca. 10 × 3 mm, apex subacute; lateral sepals subfalcate, obliquely oblong-ligulate, ca. 10.5 × 2.5 mm, apex subacute. Petals linear, ca. 11.5 × 1 mm, apex acute; lip suborbicular-rhombic, 10-11 × ca. 10 mm, margin of upper half minutely irregularly erose, callus consisting of a pair of separate, parallel calli obliquely elliptic in side view. Column straight, 4.8-5 mm, upper half with 2 broad-based wings each with a short triangular, subfalcate lobe basally. Fl. Nov.
  "Reference": "This species appears to be the plant that is illustrated as *Liparis bautingensis* in FRPS (18: 79. 1999). It differs from *L. bautingensis* in having longer (2-2.3 cm as opposed to ca. 1.2 cm) pseudobulbs, much broader (3-4.5 cm as opposed to 1.6-1.8 cm) leaves, a longer (ca. 10 cm as opposed to ca. 5 cm) rachis, and a longer (4.8-5 mm as opposed to ca. 4 mm), straight (not arcuate) column.This species appears to be the plant that is illustrated as *Liparis bautingensis* in FRPS (18: 79. 1999). It differs from *L. bautingensis* in having longer (2-2.3 cm as opposed to ca. 1.2 cm) pseudobulbs, much broader (3-4.5 cm as opposed to 1.6-1.8 cm) leaves, a longer (ca. 10 cm as opposed to ca. 5 cm) rachis, and a longer (4.8-5 mm as opposed to ca. 4 mm), straight (not arcuate) column.
  "Statistics": "&amp;#9679; Mixed forests; 1400-1800 m. Yunnan.
