中亚百脉根",
5.**Lotus krylovii** Schischkin & Sergievskaya Sist. Zametki Mater. Gerb. Krylova Tomsk. Gosud. Univ. Kuybysheva. 1932 (7-8): 5. 1932.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, sometimes annual, 10-45 cm, glabrous or puberulent on cauline leaves and calyces. Stem branched from base, erect or ascending. Leaflets 5, apical 3 obovate to obovate-elliptic and obovate-lanceolate, 7-13 × 4-6 mm, base cuneate, apex rounded, basal 2 obliquely ovate, acute, subgla-brous on both surfaces. Umbels 1- or 2(or 3)-flowered; pedun-cle 2-6 cm; sterile bract with 1-3 leaflets. Flowers 8-10 mm. Calyx 5-6 mm; teeth filiform, longer than tube, narrow part of upper calyx teeth more than half their length. Corolla light yel-low, then becoming purple or red. Ovary linear; ovules 30-35; style 3-4 mm. Legume cylindric, 20-30 × 2-3 mm. Fl. May-Aug, fr. Jul-Oct.
  "Reference": "The Chinese record of *Lotus frondosus* (Freyn) Kuprianova from Xinjiang (FRPS 42(2): 224, 226. 1998) is based on a misidentification of *L. krylovii*, as were the records from the former Soviet Union by Kuprianova (Fl. URSS 11: 295. 1945). *Lotus corniculatus* var. *fron-dosus* Freyn was described from Turkmenistan and is distributed also in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, and SW Asia (Iran and Iraq).The Chinese record of *Lotus frondosus* (Freyn) Kuprianova from Xinjiang (FRPS 42(2): 224, 226. 1998) is based on a misidentification of *L. krylovii*, as were the records from the former Soviet Union by Kuprianova (Fl. URSS 11: 295. 1945). *Lotus corniculatus* var. *fron-dosus* Freyn was described from Turkmenistan and is distributed also in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Uzbekistan, and SW Asia (Iran and Iraq).
  "Statistics": "Alkaline or saline swamps and lakeshores. Xinjiang (Junggar Pendi, Kashi Diqu), Xizang [Afghanistan, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz-stan, W Mongolia, Pakistan, Russia (European part, Siberia), Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan; SW Asia (Iran), E Europe (SE Ukraine); introduced in North America (Canada)].
  "Synonym": "*Lotus confusus* Sergievskaya; *L. corniculatus* Linnaeus var. *versicolor* Bongard &amp; C. A. Meyer.
