云南毛鳞菊",
1.**Melanoseris yunnanensis** (C. Shih) N. Kilian & Z. H. Wang Fl. China. 20-21: 219. 2011.",

## Description
Herbs ca. 1 m tall or more, perennial. Root slenderly turniplike. Stem solitary, erect, apically branched and glandular hairy. Lower and middle stem leaves with petiole 3-10 cm, narrowly winged, not clasping; leaf blade elliptic to ovate, 10-15 × 4-9 cm, pinnatipartite or pinnatisect to bipinnately lobed, pilose and hispid glandular hairy, margin dentate; lateral lobes 2-6 pairs, opposite or alternate, elliptic to lanceolate, apex acute; secondary lobes if present 1 or 2 pairs, broadly triangular to lanceolate; terminal lobe elliptic to lanceolate. Upper stem leaves similar to middle stem leaves but petiole shorter; leaf blade smaller and less divided; uppermost leaves linear-lanceolate, undivided. Synflorescence racemiform to narrowly paniculiform, with few to many capitula. Capitula nodding, with usually 15-20 florets; peduncle wiry, 0.2-2(-5) cm. Involucre purplish green, cylindric, 1.1-1.5 × 0.4-0.8 cm. Phyllaries ± acute at apex; outer phyllaries triangular-ovate to linear-lanceolate, glabrous or abaxially hispid on midvein, longest approaching inner phyllaries in length. Florets yellow to whitish. Achene ca. 7 mm; body dark reddish brown, ellipsoid, compressed, lateral ribs broadened, apex contracted into a ca. 2 mm paler beak. Pappus double, outer hairs 0.1-0.2 mm, bristles 7-8 mm. Fl. and fr. Sep-Oct.
  "Reference": "*Melanoseris yunnanensis* and *Chaetoseris lutea* show many transitions between each other and actually seem to be conspecific. According to the fragmentary type material of *Cicerbita cyanea* var. *teniana* preserved at G (the type material in herb. Bonati, formerly at LA, is presumably lost), it represents a strongly glandular form of *M. yunnanensis*.*Melanoseris yunnanensis* and *Chaetoseris lutea* show many transitions between each other and actually seem to be conspecific. According to the fragmentary type material of *Cicerbita cyanea* var. *teniana* preserved at G (the type material in herb. Bonati, formerly at LA, is presumably lost), it represents a strongly glandular form of *M. yunnanensis*.
  "Statistics": "● Grasslands on mountain slopes, river valleys, forests; 700-3400 m. Sichuan, Yunnan.
  "Synonym": "Basionym: *Chaetoseris yunnanensis* C. Shih, Acta Phytotax. Sin. 29: 410. 1991; *C. lutea* (Handel-Mazzetti) C. Shih; *C. teniana* (Beauverd) C. Shih; *Cicerbita cyanea* (D. Don) Beauverd var. *lutea* Handel-Mazzetti; *C. cyanea* var. *teniana* Beauverd.
