头嘴菊",
22.**Melanoseris macrorhiza** (Royle) N. Kilian Fl. China. 20-21: 224. 2011.",

## Description
Herbs 20-50 cm tall, perennial. Taproot slenderly turniplike. Stems solitary or few, slender, ascending-erect to erect, branched from base or higher up, glabrous [or purplish brown pilose], leafy. Lower and middle stem leaves with petiole of lower ones not basally expanded and middle ones expanded and auriculate; leaf blade elliptic to spatulate, 6-14.5[-20] × 1-4.5 cm, lyrately pinnatifid to lyrately pinnatisect, rachis glabrous [or ± hispid with purplish brown hairs], margin entire; lateral lobes 2-4(-6) pairs, orbicular to elliptic, apex obtuse to rounded; terminal lobe largest, ovate-cordate, reniform, or elliptic, apex rounded to acute. Upper stem leaves similar to middle stem leaves but smaller; uppermost leaves lanceolate to broadly linear, undivided. Synflorescence loosely to paniculately corymbiform, with usually to 8-10 capitula and slender branches. Capitula with usually 10-15 florets; peduncle capillaceous. Involucre cylindric to narrowly campanulate, (1-)1.2-1.5 × 0.4-0.5 cm. Phyllaries dark purplish green, glabrous; outer phyllaries triangular-ovate to lanceolate, longest ca. 1/2 as long as inner ones; inner phyllaries 8. Florets purple, bluish purple, or rarely white. Achene 4-5 mm; body dark brown, narrowly ellipsoid, subcompressed, lateral ribs weakly broadened, apex attenuate into pale 1-3 mm stout beak. Pappus double, outer row of hairs 0.1-0.2 mm, bristles 6-7 mm. Fl. and fr. Jul-Oct. 2*n* = 16.
  "Reference": "Whereas, according to the molecular phylogenetic analysis by N. Kilian et al. (in prep.), *Cephalorrhynchus* in the sense of its type (*C. glandulosus* Boissier) is a congener of *Cicerbita*, *Melanoseris macrorhiza*, previously treated as a member of *Cephalorrhynchus* (e.g., FRPS 80(1): 291. 1997), clearly belongs to *Melanoseris*. The white-flowered *C. albiflorus* is considered as a mere albino form of this species, as is known also occasionally in other species, and therefore treated as conspecific.Whereas, according to the molecular phylogenetic analysis by N. Kilian et al. (in prep.), *Cephalorrhynchus* in the sense of its type (*C. glandulosus* Boissier) is a congener of *Cicerbita*, *Melanoseris macrorhiza*, previously treated as a member of *Cephalorrhynchus* (e.g., FRPS 80(1): 291. 1997), clearly belongs to *Melanoseris*. The white-flowered *C. albiflorus* is considered as a mere albino form of this species, as is known also occasionally in other species, and therefore treated as conspecific.
  "Statistics": "Mountain valleys, forests, thickets, grasslands; 2700-4000 m. Xizang, Yunnan [Afghanistan, Bhutan, N India, Kashmir, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan; SW Asia].
  "Synonym": "Basionym: *Mulgedium macrorhizum* Royle, Ill. Bot. Himal. Mts. 251, t. 61, f. 1. 1835; *Cephalorrhynchus albiflorus* C. Shih; *C. macrorhizus* (Royle) Tuisl; *C. saxatilis* (Edgeworth) C. Shih; *Cicerbita duthieana* Beauverd; *C. laevigata* (Candolle) Beauverd; *C. macrorhiza* (Royle) Beauverd; *C. macrorhiza* var. *saxatilis* (Edgeworth) Beauverd; *Lactuca hoffmeisteri* Klotzsch; *L. laevigata* (Blume) Candolle var. *saxatilis* (Edgeworth) C. B. Clarke; *L. macrorhiza* (Royle) J. D. Hooker; *Melanoseris saxatilis* Edgeworth; *Mulgedium laevigatum* Candolle.
**3. 岩生头嘴菊　图版64: 1-2**

Cephalorrhynchus saxatilis (Edgew.) Shih in Act. Phytotax. 29: 416. 1991. ——Melanoseris saxatilis Edgew. in Trans. Linn. Soc. 20: 79. 1846. ——Lactuca hoffmeisteri Klotzsch in B. Reise Pr. Waldem. 81. t. 80. 1862. ——L. laevigata (Blume) DC. var. saxatilis (Edgew) C. B. Clarke, Comp. Ind. 267. 1876. ——Cicerbita macrorrhiza (Royle) Beauverd var. saxatilis (Edgew.) Beauverd in Bull. Soc. Bot. Geneve Ⅱ 2: 135. 1910; Kitam. et Gould in Hara et al. Enum. Flowering Pl. Nepal 3: 19. 1982; 西藏植物志 4: 953. 1985.

本种除以总苞片外面沿中脉有长刚毛与 Cephalorrhynchus macrorrhizus (Royle) Tsuil 相区别外，其他方面与后者无异。

分布西藏（扎达、普兰）。生于山坡水沟边及岩石缝隙中，海拔3500-3980米。巴基斯坦、尼泊尔、不丹、缅甸、克什米尔地区、锡金有分布。模式标本采自喜马拉雅。
