普洱毛鳞菊",
10.**Melanoseris henryi** (Dunn) N. Kilian Fl. China. 20-21: 221. 2011.",

## Description
Herbs to 1 m tall, perennial. Stem solitary, erect, apically branched, glabrous, leafy. Lower stem leaves not seen. Middle stem leaves spatulate, to 12 × 3 cm, pinnatifid to pinnatipartite, somewhat setose, base attenuate, margin sinuate-dentate, apex obtuse to acute; lateral lobes 1 or 2 pairs, semiorbicular to broadly ovate; terminal lobe ovate to lanceolate, as wide as lateral lobes. Upper stem leaves similar to middle stem leaves but smaller and less divided, apex acute to acuminate; uppermost stem leaves narrowly elliptic, undivided. Synflorescence paniculiform with some to many capitula. Capitula with 4 or 5? florets; peduncle wiry, sparsely setose. Involucre narrowly cylindric, 1.3-1.6 × ca. 0.3 cm. Phyllaries glabrous, apex obtuse; outer phyllaries lanceolate to linear-lanceolate, longest ca. 1/2 as long as inner ones; inner phyllaries 4. Florets ?purplish. Achene 0.9-1.1 cm; body reddish, narrowly ellipsoid, compressed, apex tapering into a paler 3-4 mm beak. Pappus ca. ?7 mm.
  "Reference": "*Lactuca henryi*, based on the collection *A. Henry 13494*, was omitted from FRPS and by X. Zhuang (Fl. Yunnan. 13. 2004), but, as confirmed by the electronic image of an isotype at NY, it represents a species well characterized by its slender involucres and long-beaked achene. It can fairly safely be assigned to *Melanoseris*.*Lactuca henryi*, based on the collection *A. Henry 13494*, was omitted from FRPS and by X. Zhuang (Fl. Yunnan. 13. 2004), but, as confirmed by the electronic image of an isotype at NY, it represents a species well characterized by its slender involucres and long-beaked achene. It can fairly safely be assigned to *Melanoseris*.
  "Statistics": "● About 1500 m. Yunnan (Pu’er).
  "Synonym": "Basionym: *Lactuca henryi* Dunn, J. Linn. Soc., Bot. 35: 512. 1903.
