红花姬旋花",
19.**Merremia similis** Elmer",

> Van Ooststroom (Blumea 3: 360-361. 1939) has discussed the ambiguity surrounding the taxon Blanco described as &lt;I&gt;Convolvulus distillatorius,&lt;/I&gt; and whether it was indeed identical with the one Merrill had before him when he made the combination &lt;I&gt;Merremia distillatoria&lt;/I&gt;. Specimens cited by Merrill disagree in several points with Blanco's original description. Van Ooststroom therefore set aside this ambiguous name and took up Elmer's later-published &lt;I&gt;M.&lt;/I&gt; &lt;I&gt;similis&lt;/I&gt;, for which the typification and original description are quite clear. The correct application of binomial requires further study, including access to types not presently available.&#x0D;\n&lt;p&gt;&#x0D;\nChang Ching-en (Fl. Taiwan 4: 385. 1978) recorded &lt;I&gt;Merremia\nsimilis&lt;/I&gt; from the extreme southern portion of Taiwan on the\nHengchun Peninsula. This is the first record of the species outside\nthe Philippines.

## Description
Climbers or sprawlers, perennial. Axial parts densely gray or\nrust-colored pubescent or mealy when young, later glabrescent.\nStems terete, fistulose. Petiole 3-17 cm; leaf blade broadly ovate\nto circular, 8.5-18(-20) X 8-16(-20) cm, densely rust or grayish\ntomentose when young, later glabrescent adaxially, base cordate,\napex abruptly acuminate. Peduncle to 30(-60?) cm, branched near\napex. Pedicel thickened distally, with a thick lobed ring below\nsepals, 2-3 cm, 4-4.5 cm in fruit. Sepals obovate to broadly elliptic\nor circular, concave, &amp;#177; equal, 1.5-1.8 cm, glabrous, margin\nmembranous, apex obtuse or slightly retuse. Fruiting sepals to\n2 cm, forming a cup around capsule. Corolla reddish (white with\na tinge of red, according to Elmer's protologue), broadly funnelform,\n3-4 cm, midpetaline bands pubescent apically; limb slightly 5-lobed.\nStamens 1.6-1.8 cm; filaments with 2 lines of hairs below insertion;\nanthers spirally twisted. Ovary conical, glabrous. Style ca. 2.8\ncm. Fruit ovoid, 1.5-1.8 cm; valves at first brown-black, later\nstraw colored. Seeds black, ca. 6 mm, tomentose-villous.

> Taiwan (Hengchun Peninsula) [Philippines].
  "Synonym": "?&lt;I&gt;Convolvulus distillatorius&lt;/I&gt; Blanco; ?&lt;I&gt;Merremia distillatoria&lt;/I&gt; (Blanco) Merrill, p.p.
