泡果茜草属",
50.**Microphysa** Schrenk Bull. Cl. Phys.-Math. Acad. Imp. Sci. Saint-Pétersbourg. 2: 115. 1844.",

> One species: NW China, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan.

## Description
Herbs, perennial, rhizomatous. Raphides present. Stems rough. Leaves and leaflike stipules of middle stem region in whorls of 4, without domatia, sessile or subsessile. Inflorescences terminal, thyrsoid, corymbose, cymes pedunculate, several to many flowered, bracteate but bracteoles strongly reduced. Flowers sessile to pedicellate, remarkably small, bisexual, monomorphic. Calyx limb obsolete. Corolla white, funnel-shaped, glabrous; lobes 4, valvate in bud. Stamens 4, inserted on upper part of corolla tube, exserted; filaments short; anthers dorsifixed. Ovary (hypanthium) with 2 cells, each with 1 erect ovule inserted at base of placenta; stigma 2-lobed, exserted. Fruit indehiscent or tardily schizocarpous, dry, with pericarp leathery and inflated (i.e., bladderlike) and usually including both seeds at dispersal; seeds small, ellipsoid-oblong or plano-convex, grooved on ventral (i.e., adaxial) side; testa membranous; endosperm corneous; embryo curved; cotyledons leaflike; radicle terete, hypogynous.
  "Reference": "*Microphysa* was originally described as *Asperula elongata*. Its subsequent generic separation by Schrenk (Bull. Cl. Phys.-Math. Acad. Imp. Sci. Saint-Pétersbourg 2: 116. 1844) was justified by its peculiar fruit structure. Only much later, Ehrendorfer et al. (Fl. Iranica 176: 161-258. 2005) postulated that *Microphysa* (as well as *A. platygalium* and *A. maximoviczii*: see under *Galium*), in spite of their funnel-shaped corollas, phylogenetically belong to *G.* sect. *Platygalium* (usually with rotate corollas), a section to which they correspond in all remaining essential characters. In the aberrant fruit of *Microphysa* the two parts of the inferior ovary do not develop into separate mericarps, each with its own pericarp, but remain united within a ± inflated leathery and common pericarp. Nevertheless, this peculiar development is not limited to *Microphysa* but, according to personal observations (F. Ehrendorfer), also occurs sporadically within populations of the *G. boreale*-*G. rubioides* group (corresponding to the series *G.* ser. *Rubioidea* Pobedimova and *G.* ser. *Borealia* Pobedimova within *G.* sect. *Platygalium*; cf. Pobedimova et al., Fl. URSS 23: 345-354. 1958). Thus, on the basis of available evidence, the single species of *Microphysa* should be placed into *G.* sect. *Platygalium*.*Microphysa* was originally described as *Asperula elongata*. Its subsequent generic separation by Schrenk (Bull. Cl. Phys.-Math. Acad. Imp. Sci. Saint-Pétersbourg 2: 116. 1844) was justified by its peculiar fruit structure. Only much later, Ehrendorfer et al. (Fl. Iranica 176: 161-258. 2005) postulated that *Microphysa* (as well as *A. platygalium* and *A. maximoviczii*: see under *Galium*), in spite of their funnel-shaped corollas, phylogenetically belong to *G.* sect. *Platygalium* (usually with rotate corollas), a section to which they correspond in all remaining essential characters. In the aberrant fruit of *Microphysa* the two parts of the inferior ovary do not develop into separate mericarps, each with its own pericarp, but remain united within a ± inflated leathery and common pericarp. Nevertheless, this peculiar development is not limited to *Microphysa* but, according to personal observations (F. Ehrendorfer), also occurs sporadically within populations of the *G. boreale*-*G. rubioides* group (corresponding to the series *G.* ser. *Rubioidea* Pobedimova and *G.* ser. *Borealia* Pobedimova within *G.* sect. *Platygalium*; cf. Pobedimova et al., Fl. URSS 23: 345-354. 1958). Thus, on the basis of available evidence, the single species of *Microphysa* should be placed into *G.* sect. *Platygalium*.
**98．泡果茜草属 Microphysa Schrenk**

Schrenk in Bull. Cl. Phys. -Math. Acad. Im P. Sci. Saint-Petersb. 2: 115. 1844; Pobed. in Kom. Fl. URSS 23: 285. 1958; C. Y. Yang in Acta Phytotax. Sinica 23 (1): 62. 1985. 

多年生直立草本；茎和分枝均粗壮。伞房状圆锥花序顶生；花两性，四数，无萼裂片；花冠近漏斗状；雄蕊着生在冠管上部；子房2室，每室有1颗胚珠。果爿双生，膀胱状，顶部附有宿萼和柱头。

单种属，分布于中亚。我国仅在新疆有产。
