屏边玉叶金花",
24.**Mussaenda pingbianensis** C. Y. Wu ex H. H. Hsue & H. Wu Acta Phytotax. Sin. 24: 233. 1986.",

## Description
Shrubs, ca. 3 m tall; branchlets glabrous. Leaves opposite; petiole ca. 6 mm, sparsely appressed pubescent; blade drying papery, adaxially shiny green, abaxially pale, elliptic or ovate, 7-8.5 × 2.5-3.2 cm, adaxially glabrous, abaxially pubescent along veins, base cuneate, apex acuminate; secondary veins ca. 7 pairs; stipules caducous to persistent, ovate, ca. 3.5 mm, pubescent, deeply 2-lobed, lobes narrowly triangular. Inflorescences congested-cymose, ca. 6 × 10 cm, many flowered, densely pubescent, sessile and tripartite or pedunculate; peduncles 1-2 cm; bracts lanceolate, 8-12 mm, densely pubescent. Flowers subsessile, biology not noted. Calyx sparsely pubescent; hypanthium portion turbinate, ca. 3 mm; lobes linear to narrowly triangular, ca. 8.5 mm, with 1 lobe in ca. 4 flowers per inflorescence expanded into white calycophyll, blade ovate to obovate, 5.5-6 cm, base obtuse to acute, stipe 10-14 mm, apex obtuse to shortly acuminate. Corolla orange to orange-red, salverform, outside sparsely to densely pubescent; tube ca. 14 mm, inside densely yellow clavate pubescent in upper part; lobes ovate, ca. 2.5 mm, adaxially densely yellow papillose, acuminate to mucronate. Berry unknown. Fl. May.
  "Reference": "The protologue described the stipules as caducous, but the protologue figure showed them as persistent. The specific epithet was written as *\"pingpienensis\"* by H. H. Hsue and H. Wu (in FRPS 71(1): 299. 1999), but it was originally published with the spelling above.The protologue described the stipules as caducous, but the protologue figure showed them as persistent. The specific epithet was written as *\"pingpienensis\"* by H. H. Hsue and H. Wu (in FRPS 71(1): 299. 1999), but it was originally published with the spelling above.
  "Statistics": "● Valleys. SE Yunnan.
