广东新耳草",
6.**Neanotis kwangtungensis** (Merrill & F. P. Metcalf) W. H. Lewis Ann. Missouri Bot. Gard. 53: 39. 1966.",

## Description
Herbs, perhaps perennial, procumbent or ascending in upper parts; stems subterete to angled or compressed, smooth to ridged and/or sulcate, glabrous. Leaves subsessile or petiolate; petiole to 10 mm, glabrous; blade elliptic, lanceolate, or ovate, 1-5 × 0.5-2 cm, glabrous or sparsely strigillose or scaberulous adaxially at least near margins, abaxially glabrous or sometimes puberulent on principal veins, base acute to obtuse, apex acuminate to acute; secondary veins 3-9 pairs; stipules sheath rounded to broadly triangular, 0.8-1.5 mm, glabrous to puberulent, with 2-7 bristles or linear lobes 0.3-3 mm, glabrous, often glandular. Inflorescences terminal and/or pseudoaxillary at upper nodes on principal and short axillary stems, capitate to congested-cymose, 1 to usually several flowered, glabrous, sessile or peduncle to 3 mm; bracts reduced, stipuliform, to 0.5 mm; pedicels to 2 mm. Flowers subsessile to pedicellate. Calyx glabrous; hypanthium portion cupuliform to turbinate, 0.8-1.2 mm; limb lobed to base; lobes triangular or ligulate, 1.5-2.5 mm. Corolla white, shortly tubular to rotate, outside glabrous or puberulent; tube 1-1.5 mm, apparently glabrous in throat; lobes narrowly triangular-oblong to ligulate, 1.5-2 mm. Capsule compressed subglobose to obovoid, ca. 3 × 4 mm, slightly dicoccous, glabrous, smooth. Fl. and fr. Jul-Oct.
  "Reference": "This name is applied here more broadly than by previous authors; many of the plants that now belong to this species were formerly included in a more broadly circumscribed *Neanotis hirsuta*. The varieties of *N. hirsuta* recognized by W. C. Ko (in FRPS 71(1): 84-85. 1999) are not completely distinct from each other and belong to *N. kwangtungensis* as circumscribed here. The name *Hedyotis lindleyana* as used for specimens from Japan appears to be a synonym of *N. kwangtungensis* rather than of *N. hirsuta*, and the range of this species is here extended to include Japan; *N. kwangtungensis* as treated here is apparently equivalent to *\"N. hirsuta\"* of the Fl. Japan (3a: 218-219. 1993). The name \"*Hedyotis kwangtungensis* (Merrill &amp; Metcalf) Ko\" is annotated on some specimens but does not appear to have been published.This name is applied here more broadly than by previous authors; many of the plants that now belong to this species were formerly included in a more broadly circumscribed *Neanotis hirsuta*. The varieties of *N. hirsuta* recognized by W. C. Ko (in FRPS 71(1): 84-85. 1999) are not completely distinct from each other and belong to *N. kwangtungensis* as circumscribed here. The name *Hedyotis lindleyana* as used for specimens from Japan appears to be a synonym of *N. kwangtungensis* rather than of *N. hirsuta*, and the range of this species is here extended to include Japan; *N. kwangtungensis* as treated here is apparently equivalent to *\"N. hirsuta\"* of the Fl. Japan (3a: 218-219. 1993). The name \"*Hedyotis kwangtungensis* (Merrill &amp; Metcalf) Ko\" is annotated on some specimens but does not appear to have been published.
  "Statistics": "Forests on gentle slopes or at streamsides; 200-800 m. Guangdong, Guangxi, Jiangxi, Sichuan, Taiwan [Japan, Thailand].
  "Synonym": "*Anotis kwangtungensis* Merrill &amp; F. P. Metcalf, Lingnan Sci. J. 16: 177. 1937; *Hedyotis lindleyana* Hooker ex Wight &amp; Arnott f. *glabricalycina* (Honda) S. S. Ying; *H. lindleyana* var. *glabricalycina* (Honda) H. Hara; *Neanotis hirsuta* (Linnaeus f.) W. H. Lewis var. *glabricalycina* (Honda) W. H. Lewis; *Oldenlandia hirsuta* Linnaeus f. var. *glabricalycina* Honda.
**8. 广东新耳草（新拟）图版17: 5-9**

Neanotis kwangtungensis (Merr. et Metcalf) Lewis in Ann. Missouri Bot. Gard. 53: 39. 1966.——Anotis kwangtungensis Merr. et Metcalf in Lingnan Sci. Jour. 16: 122. 1937.

匍匐草本；茎无毛，具棱，常在下部的节上生根。叶椭圆形，长4-6.5厘米，宽约2厘米，顶端渐尖，基部短尖，无毛或在上面散生短柔毛，边缘具极短而稀疏缘毛；叶脉不明显，侧脉每边5-9条，略明显，下面平坦；叶柄纤细，长6-10毫米；托叶顶端分裂为数条线形、长2-3毫米的裂片。花序腋生和生于小枝顶端；花具短梗，无毛，萼管杯形，长1.2毫米，萼檐裂片阔三角形与萼管近等长；花冠长3毫米，管长约1毫米，裂片长圆形，长2毫米，具明显的脉纹；雄蕊生于花冠喉部，花丝短，花药长圆形，两端钝；花柱内藏，柱头2裂。果近球形，具短柄，有狭披针形、外反的宿存萼檐裂片。花、果期8-9月。

产于广东、广西、江西、四川等省区；生于潮湿的缓坡或溪流两边的林下，颇常见。模式标本采自广东翁源。
