石丁香属",
61.**Neohymenopogon** Bennet Indian Forester. 107: 436. 1981.",

> About three species: Bhutan, China, India, Myanmar, Nepal, Thailand, Vietnam; two species (one endemic) in China.

## Description
Shrubs, usually epiphytic, unarmed, often deciduous, often rather succulent. Raphides presumably absent. Leaves opposite, apparently without domatia; stipules persistent, interpetiolar or shortly united around stem, generally ovate, acute to rounded. Inflorescences terminal, corymbose-cymose, many flowered, pedunculate, bracteate; bracts subtending 2 or more cymes per inflorescence enlarged, petaloid, stipitate (i.e., similar to a calycophyll). Flowers pedicellate, bisexual, monomorphic. Calyx limb 5-lobed. Corolla white to pale green, salverform or salverform-funnelform with tube prolonged, inside reflexed villous in throat and on lobes; lobes 5, valvate in bud. Stamens 5, inserted below corolla throat, included; filaments short; anthers dorsifixed, shortly bifid at base. Ovary 2-celled, ovules numerous in each cell on peltate axile placentas; stigmas 2, linear, partially exserted to included. Fruit capsular, oblong-ellipsoid, obovoid, or turbinate, apically prolonged into short beak, septicidally dehiscent through beak or sometimes splitting deeply into 2 valves, papery to slightly woody, with calyx limb persistent; seeds numerous, medium-sized, fusiform, acute to caudate at each end, with hilum lateral; testa membranous; endosperm rich; embryo minute; cotyledon ovate; radicle short.
  "Reference": "The lack of raphides has not been specifically noted but is presumed here based on the classification of this genus in Cinchoneae in FRPS (71(1): x. 1999). The enlarged petaloid bracts of the inflorescences resemble the calycophylls of many other Rubiaceae species, but in *Neohymenopogon* many of these structures are inserted below the base of the hypanthium and are thus actually considered bracts. Puff et al. (Rubiaceae of Thailand, 172. 2005) noted that *N. parasiticus* grows in a variety of seasonal to evergreen epiphytic and epilithic [micro]habitats, that, not surprisingly, it is very variable morphologically, probably in correlation with habitat, and that the petaloid bracts persist on the fruit and appear to function in seed dispersal as well as in pollination. The length of the corollas of *N. parasiticus* for example is notably variable, by 300%, but there seems to be continuous variation and no clearly separable subgroups. Raizada and Bennet (Indian Forester 107: 432-437. 1981) noted that the name *Hymenopogon*, long used for these plants, was a later homonym of a moss genus and published a new name for the genus; their article contained no information about the plants apart from a summary of general geographic ranges, which were not entirely correct even then. The specific epithets of these species have sometimes been spelled as *\"parasiticum\"* and *\"oligocarpum,\"* but the *\"-us\"* ending is correct (*Vienna Code*, Art. 62.2(a)).The lack of raphides has not been specifically noted but is presumed here based on the classification of this genus in Cinchoneae in FRPS (71(1): x. 1999). The enlarged petaloid bracts of the inflorescences resemble the calycophylls of many other Rubiaceae species, but in *Neohymenopogon* many of these structures are inserted below the base of the hypanthium and are thus actually considered bracts. Puff et al. (Rubiaceae of Thailand, 172. 2005) noted that *N. parasiticus* grows in a variety of seasonal to evergreen epiphytic and epilithic [micro]habitats, that, not surprisingly, it is very variable morphologically, probably in correlation with habitat, and that the petaloid bracts persist on the fruit and appear to function in seed dispersal as well as in pollination. The length of the corollas of *N. parasiticus* for example is notably variable, by 300%, but there seems to be continuous variation and no clearly separable subgroups. Raizada and Bennet (Indian Forester 107: 432-437. 1981) noted that the name *Hymenopogon*, long used for these plants, was a later homonym of a moss genus and published a new name for the genus; their article contained no information about the plants apart from a summary of general geographic ranges, which were not entirely correct even then. The specific epithets of these species have sometimes been spelled as *\"parasiticum\"* and *\"oligocarpum,\"* but the *\"-us\"* ending is correct (*Vienna Code*, Art. 62.2(a)).
  "Synonym": "*Hymenopogon* Wallich in Roxburgh, Fl. Ind. 2: 156. 1824, not *Hymenopogum* P. Beauvois (1804) [Musci].
  "keylist": "
1 Leaves elliptic-oblong, oblanceolate, or elliptic, with apex acuminate, with secondary lateral veins to 11 pairs and well separated, i.e., 8-16 mm apart at midrib; fruit pilosulous to glabrous.[*N. oligocarpus* 疏果石丁香](Neohymenopogon oligocarpus.md)
1 Leaves elliptic-obovate, lanceolate, oblanceolate, or obovate, with apex obtuse to acute, with secondary veins 15-28 pairs and closely set, i.e., 5-11 mm apart at midrib; fruit villosulous to pilosulous or strigillose.[*N. parasiticus* 石丁香",](Neohymenopogon parasiticus.md)
**20. 石丁香属 Neohymenopogon S. S. R. Bennet**

S. S. R. Bennet in Indian For. 107 (7): 436. 1981. Hymenopogon Wall. in Roxb. Fl. Ind. ed. Carey 2: 156. 1824; Hook. f. in Benth. et Hook. f. Gen. Pl. 2: 34. 1873; K. Schum. in Engl. u. Prantl, Nat. Pflanzenfam. IV (4): 49. 1891 (non Beauv. 1816).

附生小灌木；小枝圆柱形，无毛或有柔毛。叶对生，大，具柄，脱落；托叶在叶柄间，大，卵形，短尖，宿存，有稍肉质腋生的粘液毛。花稍大，白色，组成伞房状的聚伞花序，花序有数个大型、白色、叶状、具网脉的宿存苞片；萼管倒卵形，裂片5，近相等，卵形或线形，宿存；花冠高脚碟状，管长，上部稍扩大，喉部有下弯的长柔毛，裂片5，短，开展，中部有髯毛，镊合状排列；雄蕊5枚，着生在花冠喉部的下方，花丝短，花药背着，线形，基部短2裂，内藏；花盘冠状，具缘毛；子房具2槽，2室，胚珠每室多数，钻形，覆瓦状排列在盾状、着生于隔膜上的半球形胎座上，花柱丝状，具2槽，柱头2，线形，开展，具乳突。蒴果长圆形或陀螺形，具2槽，顶冠以宿存的萼檐，室间开裂为2果爿，果爿复2裂；种子多数，稠密，覆瓦状排列，线形，两端尾状，种脐侧生，种皮膜质，胚乳丰富；胚微小，子叶卵形，胚根短。

约3种，国外分布于印度、不丹、锡金、缅甸、泰国；我国有2种，产于西南部。

本属模式种：石丁香 Neohymenopogon parasiticus (Wall.) S. S. R. Bennet

## 检索表

1 叶长圆形、倒披针形或椭圆形，顶端渐尖，侧脉少而疏，7-11对；果较少，无毛。——[疏果石丁香](Neohymenopogon%20oligocarpus.md)
1 叶椭圆状倒卵形、披针形、倒披针形或倒卵形，顶端钝或短尖，侧脉多而密，15-28对；果较多，有柔毛。——[石丁香](Neohymenopogon%20parasiticus.md)
