台湾新乌檀",
3.**Neonauclea truncata** (Hayata) Yamamoto J. Soc. Trop. Agric. 7: 149. 1935.",

## Description
Trees, evergreen, large, height not noted; branches flattened to angled, gray, glabrous. Leaves sessile or subsessile; petiole to 2 mm, glabrous; blade drying leathery, obovate, broadly obovate, broadly elliptic, or elliptic-oblong, 13.5-26 × 9.9-19.8 cm, glabrous, base rounded to truncate, obtuse, or cordulate, apex obtuse to acute or shortly acuminate; secondary veins 7-9 pairs, in abaxial axils with pilosulous or foveolate domatia; stipules elliptic-oblong to elliptic, 12-25 × 8-15 mm, glabrous, smooth to weakly keeled, rounded to obtuse. Inflorescences densely strigillose to glabrescent; peduncles 1-3(-5), 2.2-3.5 cm, stout; flowering heads solitary on peduncles, 12-25 mm in diam. across calyces, 34-45 mm in diam. across corollas; bracteoles reportedly sparse, not seen. Calyx with ovary portion 0.8-1.5 mm, glabrous; limb partially lobed, with basal tubular portion 1-1.5 mm, pilosulous at least on apical portion; lobes deciduous before corollas open, with shaft linear, 1.5-2.5 mm, glabrous below and densely pilosulous in upper part, with apical portion obconic to thickly fusiform, 2-2.5 mm, pilosulous to glabrescent. Corolla white, funnelform; tube 8-10 mm, glabrous; lobes ligulate to lanceolate, 2-3 mm, puberulent, obtuse to acute. Stigma subglobose to fusiform, ca. 1 mm, exserted for 8-10 mm. Fruiting heads 30-35 mm in diam. Capsules obconic, 8-10 mm, glabrescent. Fl. Jul.
  "Reference": "This species was reported from Taiwan by Chun (Fl. Taiwan 4: 313. 1978) and later by Liu et al. (Fl. Taiwan, ed. 2, 4: 304-306. 1998) under the name *Neonauclea reticulata* (Haviland) Merrill, with the name *N. truncata* placed in synonymy there. However, Yamamoto (loc. cit.) had already noted the differences that separate *N. truncata* and *N. reticulata* and concluded that the name *N. reticulata* had been incorrectly applied to the Taiwanese plants. Ridsdale (Blumea 34: 213-217. 1989) later recognized these as two distinct species and reported an extended range for *N. truncata*, in N Philippines.This species was reported from Taiwan by Chun (Fl. Taiwan 4: 313. 1978) and later by Liu et al. (Fl. Taiwan, ed. 2, 4: 304-306. 1998) under the name *Neonauclea reticulata* (Haviland) Merrill, with the name *N. truncata* placed in synonymy there. However, Yamamoto (loc. cit.) had already noted the differences that separate *N. truncata* and *N. reticulata* and concluded that the name *N. reticulata* had been incorrectly applied to the Taiwanese plants. Ridsdale (Blumea 34: 213-217. 1989) later recognized these as two distinct species and reported an extended range for *N. truncata*, in N Philippines.
  "Statistics": "Forests, on coral rocks. Taiwan [Philippines].
  "Synonym": "*Nauclea truncata* Hayata, J. Coll. Sci. Imp. Univ. Tokyo 30(1): 140. 1911.
**2. 台湾新乌檀（新拟）图版69: 4-8**

Neonauclea truncata (Hayata) Yamamoto in Journ. Soc. Trop. Agr. Taiwan 7: 149. 1935; Ridsd. in Blumea 34 (1): 213. 1989. ——Nauclea truncata Hayata in Journ. Coll. Sci. Tokyo 30: 140. 1911 et Ic. Pl. Formos. 2: 80. 1912.——Neonauclea reticulata auct. non (Havil.) Merr.: Kanehira, Formos. Trees 677. fig. 630. 1936; J. M. Chao in Li, Fl. Taiwan 4: 313. 1978; 徐祥浩等, 华南农学院学报2: (4): 32. 1981.

常绿大乔木；枝灰色，有横向皮孔，小枝被短柔毛。叶对生，近无柄，无毛，椭圆形或长圆形，长16-25厘米，宽8-12厘米，顶端略钝，基部短尖至截平，全缘，侧脉明显；托叶长圆形，长14毫米，宽8毫米，早落。头状花序，不计花冠直径40毫米，顶生，无毛，近无柄，单生或2个，有小苞片；萼裂片5，不明显；花冠长约10毫米，5裂，外面无毛；花柱伸长；小蒴果长8毫米。花期7月。

产于台湾；在台湾南部的珊瑚岩上很普遍。国外分布于菲律宾。
