黑花紫菊",
7.**Notoseris melanantha** (Franchet) C. Shih Acta Phytotax. Sin. 25: 198. 1987.",

## Description
Herbs 0.5-2 m tall, perennial. Stem solitary, erect, apically branched and glabrous or glandular hairy, leafy. Lower and middle stem leaves with petiole 3-17 cm, ± unwinged, basally not widened; leaf blade pinnatipartite to pinnatisect or lyrately so, rarely some leaves undivided, margin mucronulately dentate (sometimes very coarsely so) and sometimes ± sinuate; lateral lobes 1-3 pairs, opposite to subopposite, elliptic, irregularly rhombic, or obovate, 1-10 × 0.5-6 cm, base truncate, cuneate, or subpetiolulate, apex obtuse to acute; terminal lobe broadly elliptic, triangular-ovate, or rhombic, 4-22 × 3-20 cm, base cordate, truncate, or cuneate, apex obtuse, rounded, or acute. Upper stem leaves similar to middle stem leaves but with shorter petiole to sessile, smaller and less or not divided. Synflorescence narrowly paniculiform, with numerous capitula. Capitula with 5(or 6) florets. Involucre ca. 12 × 2-3 mm at anthesis, to 1.6 cm in fruit. Phyllaries purplish, abaxially glabrous; outer phyllaries triangular, linear-elliptic, or lanceolate, largest 4-6 × 1-1.5 mm, apex acute; inner phyllaries 5, apex ± rounded. Florets bluish purple to pink. Achene 4-6 mm, basally more attenuate than apically. Pappus 7-9 mm. Fl. and fr. Jun-Dec. 2*n* = 18*.
  "Reference": "*Notoseris melanantha* is here treated in a wide sense, including several other species previously distinguished only by rather subtle leaf and indumentum features. As here treated, it is well characterized by its pinnatipartite to pinnatisect leaves with a broad, triangular to triangular-ovate or broadly rhombic terminal lobe and its 1.2-1.6 cm involucres with 5 inner phyllaries. Comparing the type material of *N. melanantha* and *N. henryi*, which were apparently described independently of each other a few years apart, with a larger number of specimens referable to either of them, it becomes evident that a continuous variation in leaf shape closely knits all of these specimens. The rich type material of *N. melanantha* represents a form with pinnatipartite to pinnatisect lower and middle stem leaves, the rachis of which is distinctly to broadly winged at least between the broad, triangular-ovate terminal lobe and the upper pair of lateral lobes and narrowly winged to unwinged between the pairs of lateral lobes, and the lateral lobes of which have a broad base. The syntypes of *N. henryi*, *A. Henry 7022* and *A. Henry 11214*, in contrast, have pinnatisect lower and middle stem leaves with usually unwinged rachis, lateral lobes with narrow or even subpetiolulate base, and a broad, triangular-ovate to rhombic terminal lobe. This latter leaf shape appears to be much more common. As *N. melanantha* predates the name *N. henryi* for a few years, the former is the correct name for the commonest and most widespread *Notoseris* species. Three further species, *N. formosana*, *N. gracilipes*, and *N. rhombiformis*, apparently each represent only part of this continuous variation, making their delimitation practically impossible. Of these, *N. rhombiformis* refers to plants with a broad, distinctly rhombic terminal lobe separated by the unwinged rachis from the uppermost pair of lateral lobes, a form also represented by the syntype *A. Henry 11214* and approximately by part of the material of the syntype *A. Henry 7022* of *N. henryi*, while *N. gracilipes* and *N. formosana* refer to pinnatisect-leafy plants with a broadly triangular terminal lobe and were moreover distinguished by indumentum characters.*Notoseris melanantha* is here treated in a wide sense, including several other species previously distinguished only by rather subtle leaf and indumentum features. As here treated, it is well characterized by its pinnatipartite to pinnatisect leaves with a broad, triangular to triangular-ovate or broadly rhombic terminal lobe and its 1.2-1.6 cm involucres with 5 inner phyllaries. Comparing the type material of *N. melanantha* and *N. henryi*, which were apparently described independently of each other a few years apart, with a larger number of specimens referable to either of them, it becomes evident that a continuous variation in leaf shape closely knits all of these specimens. The rich type material of *N. melanantha* represents a form with pinnatipartite to pinnatisect lower and middle stem leaves, the rachis of which is distinctly to broadly winged at least between the broad, triangular-ovate terminal lobe and the upper pair of lateral lobes and narrowly winged to unwinged between the pairs of lateral lobes, and the lateral lobes of which have a broad base. The syntypes of *N. henryi*, *A. Henry 7022* and *A. Henry 11214*, in contrast, have pinnatisect lower and middle stem leaves with usually unwinged rachis, lateral lobes with narrow or even subpetiolulate base, and a broad, triangular-ovate to rhombic terminal lobe. This latter leaf shape appears to be much more common. As *N. melanantha* predates the name *N. henryi* for a few years, the former is the correct name for the commonest and most widespread *Notoseris* species. Three further species, *N. formosana*, *N. gracilipes*, and *N. rhombiformis*, apparently each represent only part of this continuous variation, making their delimitation practically impossible. Of these, *N. rhombiformis* refers to plants with a broad, distinctly rhombic terminal lobe separated by the unwinged rachis from the uppermost pair of lateral lobes, a form also represented by the syntype *A. Henry 11214* and approximately by part of the material of the syntype *A. Henry 7022* of *N. henryi*, while *N. gracilipes* and *N. formosana* refer to pinnatisect-leafy plants with a broadly triangular terminal lobe and were moreover distinguished by indumentum characters.
  "Statistics": "● Forests, forest margins; 1300-2700 m. Chongqing, Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hubei, Hunan, Sichuan, Taiwan, Yunnan.
  "Synonym": "*Lactuca melanantha* Franchet, J. Bot. (Morot) 9: 291. 1895; *Notoseris formosana* (Kitamura) C. Shih; *N. gracilipes* C. Shih; *N. henryi* (Dunn) C. Shih; *N. rhombiformis* C. Shih; *Prenanthes formosana* Kitamura; *P. henryi* Dunn.
**6.黑花紫菊**

Notoseris melanantha (Franch.) Shih in Act. Phytotax. Sin. 25: 198. 1987. ——Lactuca melanantha Franch. in Journ. de Bot. 9: 291. 1895; Diels in Bot. Jahrb. Engler 29: 634. 1901; S. Y. Hu in Quart. Journ. Taiwan Mus. 20 (3-4): 304. 1967.

多年生草本，高1.5米。茎直立，单生，上部圆锥花序状分枝，被稠密的棕褐色多细胞节毛。中下部茎叶大头羽状浅裂或深裂，顶裂片三角状戟形.侧裂片2对，较；中上部茎叶与中下部茎叶同形并等样分裂，顶裂片三角状戟形或戟形，长8-10厘米，宽6-9厘米，或不裂的叶三角状戟形；全部中下部及中上部茎叶或裂片边缘有大小不等的尖或圆齿，顶端长或短渐尖，有长或短柄，叶柄及羽轴有宽4-9毫米的翼；花序分枝上的叶不裂，倒披针形或长椭圆形，长2. 5-5. 5厘米，宽0.5-1.5厘米，顶端渐尖，基部楔形收窄，无柄；全部叶两面无毛。头状花序多数，沿茎枝排成长圆锥状花序，花序分枝及花序梗被稠密的棕褐色的多细胞节毛，总苞圆柱状，长1.2厘米，直径2-4毫米；总苞片3层，中外层小，披针形或线状披针形，长2-4毫米，宽约1毫米，内层长披针形或线状披针形，长1.2厘米，宽约1毫米，全部总苞片外面紫色，无毛，顶端急尖或钝。舌状小花5枚，紫色。瘦果紫色，长倒披针形，压扁，长5毫米，宽达1毫米，每面有7条高起的纵肋。冠毛白色,2层，长7毫米，细锯齿状。花果期7月。

分布四川（南川、城口）。生于山谷林缘，海拔2 050米。模式标本采自四川城口。
