香荚兰亚科",
4.**Orchidaceae subfam. Vanilloideae** VANILLOIDEAE",

> Twenty-four genera and ca. 185 species: widespread in the tropical regions of Africa, America, and Asia, with a few species reaching temperate areas; six genera and 19 species (five endemic) in China.

## Description
Small to large terrestrial autotrophic or holomycotrophic, monopodial or sympodial herbs or scrambling or climbing vines. Roots elongate, fleshy; rhizome short to elongate. Stems erect or scrambling, unbranched or branched, very short to long, leafy. Leaves 1 to many, sometimes reduced to scales, alternate, fleshy or leathery, conduplicate, spreading or suberect, ovate, elliptic, lanceolate, ligulate, or oblong, green, glabrous. Inflorescences terminal or lateral, 1- to many flowered, racemose or paniculate, rarely 1-flowered; rachis sometimes pubescent; bracts conduplicate. Flowers often showy; pedicel short; ovary 1-locular or 3-locular, glabrous or pubescent; abscission layer between pedicel and ovary, sometimes with a distinct calyculus present. Sepals free, subsimilar, glabrous or externally pubescent. Petals free, glabrous; lip free or with side margins fused to column, 3-lobed or entire, usually with a callus of hairs, papillae, or backward-facing scales, lacking a nectary. Column elongate, slender, porrect, hooded at tip; anther 1, terminal, mobile; pollinia obscure; pollen loose, shed in monads or rarely tetrads; stigma 3-lobed, concave, viscid. Capsule erect to pendulous, 3-ribbed, cylindric to almost ellipsoidal, glabrous to pubescent. Seeds spherical with a hard testa.
  "Reference": "Of the six genera in China, four are vines (*Cyrtosia*, *Erythrorchis*, *Galeola*, and *Vanilla*) and the other two are terrestrial herbs (*Lecanorchis* and *Pogonia*).Of the six genera in China, four are vines (*Cyrtosia*, *Erythrorchis*, *Galeola*, and *Vanilla*) and the other two are terrestrial herbs (*Lecanorchis* and *Pogonia*).
