囊谦棘豆",
118.**Oxytropis qingnanensis** Y. H. Wu Acta Bot. Yunnan. 19: 36. 1997.",

## Description
Herbs, 10-16 cm tall, acaulescent. Stipules with a trian-gular-lanceolate distinct part, 0.6-1.3 cm, adnate to petiole in basal ca. 1/3, connate. Leaves 3-10 cm, 15-23-foliolate; petiole and rachis with appressed to spreading sparse white trichomes; petiole 1-5 cm; leaflet blades ovate, oblong, or ovate-lanceo-late, 3-13 × 2.5-5 mm, both surfaces with appressed white trichomes, base rounded, apex acute. Racemes dense, many flowered; peduncle 10-14 cm, slightly longer than or subequal to leaves, with spreading long trichomes basally intermixed with dense short trichomes; bracts linear, 4-6 mm, white pilose. Calyx subcylindric, 6-7 mm, with intermixed dense black short and white long trichomes; lobes subulate, shorter than to almost as long as tube. Corolla bluish purple; standard ca. 1 cm, lamina ovate and 7-8 mm wide, apex emarginate; wings ca. 1 cm, lamina obliquely narrowly obovate and 3-4 mm wide, apex emarginate; keel ca. 8 mm, beak 0.5-1 mm. Legume sessile, pale brown, cylindric, 8-10 × 3-4 mm, leathery, sparsely pu-bescent, beak ca. 1.5 mm. Fl. and fr. Jun-Sep.
  "Reference": "The specific epithet was spelled both *\"qinghaiensis\"* and *\"qing-nanensis\"* in the protologue (heading and figure caption on p. 36, Feb 1997). Later, in the same volume, this was corrected to *Oxytropis qing-nanensis* (p. 223, Jun 1997). The name *O. nangqianensis* X. Y. Zhu (Cathaya 11-12: 154. 2000) was published as a nomen novum in the mistaken belief that its replaced synonym was an illegitimate later homonym of *O. qinghaiensis* Y. H. Wu (1996); see the comments under that species (p. 475). In fact, the name *O. nangqianensis* was nomen-claturally superfluous when published and is therefore illegitimate.The specific epithet was spelled both *\"qinghaiensis\"* and *\"qing-nanensis\"* in the protologue (heading and figure caption on p. 36, Feb 1997). Later, in the same volume, this was corrected to *Oxytropis qing-nanensis* (p. 223, Jun 1997). The name *O. nangqianensis* X. Y. Zhu (Cathaya 11-12: 154. 2000) was published as a nomen novum in the mistaken belief that its replaced synonym was an illegitimate later homonym of *O. qinghaiensis* Y. H. Wu (1996); see the comments under that species (p. 475). In fact, the name *O. nangqianensis* was nomen-claturally superfluous when published and is therefore illegitimate.
  "Statistics": "● Near alpine forests; 3900-4100 m. Qinghai.
  "Synonym": "*Oxytropis nangqianensis* X. Y. Zhu, nom. illeg. superfl.
