假福王草",
7.**Paraprenanthes sororia** (Miquel) C. Shih Acta Phytotax. Sin. 26: 422. 1988.",

## Description
Herbs 0.5-1.5[-1.8] m tall, perennial. Stem glabrous or more rarely glandular hairy. Basal leaves withered at anthesis. Lower and middle stem leaves with petiole 3-7 cm, unwinged; leaf blade undivided and triangular-ovate to lanceolate or ± lyrately pinnatifid to ± lyrately pinnatisect, glabrous, base cordate, truncate, or cuneate, margin ± sinuate and mucronulately dentate; lateral lobes 1 or 2(or 3) pairs, sometimes alternate or unpaired, ovate to irregularly rhombic, 1-11 × 1-7 cm, smaller toward leaf base, apex rounded to acute; terminal lobe broadly triangular to broadly lanceolate, 5.5-15 × 5.5-15 cm, base hastate, cordate, truncate, or cuneate, margin often coarsely sinuate, apex acute. Upper stem leaves sessile or with a shorter winged petiole, smaller, less or not divided. Synflorescence narrowly paniculiform, with many capitula. Capitula with usually 10-15 florets. Involucre 9-11 × ca. 3 mm. Outer phyllaries ovate to lanceolate, longest ca. 4 × 1 mm, apex acute; inner phyllaries ± 8, apex obtuse to rounded. Florets purplish. Achene 4-5 mm, attenuate into a ca. 1 mm beaklike apex. Pappus 7-8 mm. Fl. and fr. May-Aug. 2*n* = 18*.
  "Reference": "*Paraprenanthes sororia* is the most widespread species of the genus and one of the two species distributed also outside China. Its circumscription and delimitation differ in the literature. *Paraprenanthes pilipes* and *P. sylvicola* have been considered either as specifically distinct or as conspecific, and *Lactuca diversifolia* (here treated as *P. diversifolia*) has been treated as a separate species and, more recently, as conspecific. This last species, however, clearly differs and is readily distinguished from *P. sororia* by its smaller capitula with only 5 inner phyllaries and 4-6 florets and by its endemic status in China. In contrast, *P. sylvicola* as treated in FRPS (80(1): 172. 1997), delimited by undivided leaves and glabrous upper stem portion, actually comprises plants (or specimens) with undivided leaves of both *P. sororia* and *P. diversifolia*. The type of the name *P. sylvicola* represents *P. diversifolia*. Glandular hairy plants, which occur throughout the distribution range of *P. sororia*, were formally described as a variety (*Mycelis sororia* var. *pilipes*) from Japan and later upvalued to species rank as *P. pilipes*. However, the co-occurrence of entirely glabrous and apically glandular hairy plants is also known from other species in subtribe Lactucinae and is of no taxonomic value. *Paraprenanthes pilipes* is therefore treated as synonymous with *P. sororia*. *Paraprenanthes hastata*, with conspicuous undivided lanceolate to lanceolate-hastate middle stem leaves and glandular hairy upper stem portion, which is only known from the incomplete type material collected in Chongqing on Jinyun Shan, is here considered merely as a depauperate form of *P. sororia*. *Paraprenanthes luchunensis*, finally, combines two different elements, and we follow X. Zhuang (Fl. Yunnan. 13: 741. 2004) who included that name in the sense of its type in *P. sororia*; other collections cited in the protologue represent *P. polypodiifolia*.*Paraprenanthes sororia* is the most widespread species of the genus and one of the two species distributed also outside China. Its circumscription and delimitation differ in the literature. *Paraprenanthes pilipes* and *P. sylvicola* have been considered either as specifically distinct or as conspecific, and *Lactuca diversifolia* (here treated as *P. diversifolia*) has been treated as a separate species and, more recently, as conspecific. This last species, however, clearly differs and is readily distinguished from *P. sororia* by its smaller capitula with only 5 inner phyllaries and 4-6 florets and by its endemic status in China. In contrast, *P. sylvicola* as treated in FRPS (80(1): 172. 1997), delimited by undivided leaves and glabrous upper stem portion, actually comprises plants (or specimens) with undivided leaves of both *P. sororia* and *P. diversifolia*. The type of the name *P. sylvicola* represents *P. diversifolia*. Glandular hairy plants, which occur throughout the distribution range of *P. sororia*, were formally described as a variety (*Mycelis sororia* var. *pilipes*) from Japan and later upvalued to species rank as *P. pilipes*. However, the co-occurrence of entirely glabrous and apically glandular hairy plants is also known from other species in subtribe Lactucinae and is of no taxonomic value. *Paraprenanthes pilipes* is therefore treated as synonymous with *P. sororia*. *Paraprenanthes hastata*, with conspicuous undivided lanceolate to lanceolate-hastate middle stem leaves and glandular hairy upper stem portion, which is only known from the incomplete type material collected in Chongqing on Jinyun Shan, is here considered merely as a depauperate form of *P. sororia*. *Paraprenanthes luchunensis*, finally, combines two different elements, and we follow X. Zhuang (Fl. Yunnan. 13: 741. 2004) who included that name in the sense of its type in *P. sororia*; other collections cited in the protologue represent *P. polypodiifolia*.
  "Statistics": "Mountain slopes, thickets in mountain valleys, forests; 200-3200 m. Anhui, Chongqing, Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi, ?Guizhou, ?Hainan, Hubei, Hunan, ?Jiangsu, Jiangxi, Sichuan, Taiwan, ?Xizang, Yunnan, Zhejiang [Japan, Vietnam].
  "Synonym": "*Lactuca sororia* Miquel, Ann. Mus. Bot. Lugduno-Batavi 2: 189. 1866; *L. sororia* f. *glabra* Y. Ling; *L. sororia* var. *glabra* Kitamura; *L. sororia* var. *glandulosa* Kitamura; *L. sororia* var. *nudipes* (Migo) Kitamura; *L. sororia* var. *pilipes* (Migo) Kitamura; *L. thirionnii* H. Léveillé; *Mycelis sororia* (Miquel) Nakai; *M. sororia* var. *nudipes* Migo; *M. sororia* var. *pilipes* Migo; *Paraprenanthes hastata* C. Shih; *P. luchunensis* C. Shih; *P. pilipes* (Migo) C. Shih; *P. thirionnii* (H. Léveillé) C. Shih.
**7.假福王草 堆莴苣（中国高等植物图鉴）图版1: 7**

Paraprenanthes sororia (Miq.) Shih in Act. Phytotax. Sin. 26: 422. 1988. ——Lactuca sororia Miq. in Ann. Mus. Lugd. -Bat. 2: 189. 1865; Forbes et Hemsl. in Journ. Linn. Soc. Bot. 23: 484. 1888; Diels in Bot. Jahrb. Engler 29: 631. 1901; Gagnep. in Lecomte, Fl. Gen. Indo-Chin. 3: 625. 1924; Merr. in Sunyatsenia 1: 206. 1934; Ling in Contr. Inst. Bot. Nat. Acad. Peiping 3: 191. 1935; Hand. -Mazz., Symb. Sin. 7: 1181. 1936; Ohwi, Fl. Jap. 925. 1965; S. Y. Hu in Quart. Journ. Taiwan Mus. 20 (1-2): 28. 1967; 中国高等植物图鉴4: 694. 1975, quoad nomen; Lauener in Notes Royal Bot. Gard. Edinb. 34: 395. 1976; 贵州植物志9: 363. 1989. Lactuca diversifolia Vaniot in Bull. Acad. Geogr. Bot. 12: 245. 1903, Levl., Fl. Kouy-Tcheou 99. 1914, p. p. et Cat. Pl. Yunnan 46. 1915; Hand. -Mazz., Symb. Sin. 7: 1185. 1936, pro syn. sub Prenanthes brunoniana Wall. var. raphanifolia (DC.) Hook. f.——L. thirionni Levl. in Rep. Sp. Nov. Fedde, 11: 306. 1912; S. Y. Hu Quart. Journ. Taiwan Mus. 20 (1-2): 30. 1912.——Mycelis sororia (Miq.) Nakai in Bot. Mag. Tokyo 36: 24. 1922.——Prenanthes diversifolia (Vaniot) Chang in Bull. Fan Mem. Inst. Biol. 5: 321. 1934——Lactuca sororia Miq. f. typica Ling et f. glabra Ling in Contr. Inst. Bot. Nat. Acad. Peiping 3: 191. 1935. ——L. sororia Miq. var. glabra Kitam. in Act. Phytotax et Geobot. 6: 237. 1937. ——Mycelis sororia (Miq.) Nakai var. nudipes Migo in Journ. Shanghai Sic. Inst. 3 (4): 173. 1939. ——Lactuca sororia Miq. var. nudipes (Migo) Kitam. in Act. Phytotax. et Geobot. 11: 270. 1942.——Paraprenanthes thirionni (Levl.) Shih in Act. Phytotax. Sin. 26: 424. 1988.——Prenanthes violaefolia auct. non Decne.: 西藏植物志4: 957. 1985.

一年生草本，高50-150厘米。茎直立，单生，上部圆锥状花序分枝，全部茎枝光滑无毛。基生叶花期枯萎；下部及中部茎叶大头羽状半裂或深裂或几全裂，极少羽状深裂或几全裂，有长4-7厘米的狭或宽翼柄，顶裂片大，宽三角状戟形、三角状心形、三角形或宽卵状三角形，长5.5-15厘米，宽5.5-15厘米，顶端急尖，边缘有大或小锯齿或重锯齿，齿顶及齿缘有小尖头，基部戟形或心形或平截，极少顶裂片与侧裂等大或几等大，披针形或不规则菱状披针形，长4-11厘米，宽3-7厘米，侧裂片1-2(3)对，椭圆形，下方的侧裂片更小，三角状锯齿形，全部侧裂顶端圆形或急尖，有小尖头，边缘有小尖头状锯齿；羽轴有宽或狭翼；上部茎叶小，不裂，戟形、卵状戟形、披针形或长椭圆形，有短翼柄或无柄；全部叶两面无毛。头状花序多数，沿茎枝顶端排成圆锥状花序。总苞圆柱状，长1.1厘米，宽约2毫米；总苞片4层，外层及最外层短，卵形至披针形，长1-2毫米，宽不足1毫米，顶端急尖，内层及最内层长，长1. 1厘米，宽1毫米，线状披针形，顶端钝或圆形；全部苞片外面无毛，有时淡紫红色。舌状小花粉红色，约10枚。瘦果黑色，稍粗厚，见压扁，纺锤状，顶端窄，淡黄白色，长4.3-5毫米，每面有5条高起纵肋。冠毛2层，白色，长7毫米，微糙毛状。花果期5-8月。

分布江苏（宜兴）、安徽（黄山）、浙江（杭州、寿昌、宁波、昌化）、江西（宜黄）、福建（长汀、沙县）、湖北（合丰、宣恩）、湖南（新宁、黔阳）、广东（龙门、和平）、广西（兴安）、四川（奉节、峨眉、宝兴、天全、雅安、南川）、贵州（大方、凯里、贞丰）、西藏（察隅）。生于山坡、山谷灌丛、林下，海拔200-3 200米。日本、朝鲜、中南半岛有分布。模式标本采自日本。
