心启兰属",
188.**Penkimia** Phukan & Odyuo Orchid Rev. 114: 330. 2006.",

> One species: China, NE India.

## Description
Herbs, epiphytic, monopodial, small. Stems rather short, enclosed in leaf sheaths, rooting near base. Leaves many, distichous, subterete and channeled above, jointed and sheathing at base. Inflorescence from basal portion of stem, racemose, many flowered. Flowers small. Sepals and petals somewhat similar; lip adnate to base of column, immobile, 3-lobed, spurred; lateral lobes from both lower sides of mid-lobe; spur cylindric, unornamented inside. Column short, footless; rostellum large, subsquare, conspicuously broader than column; pollinia 2, waxy, each with a distinct caudicle attached to subterminal portion of a common linear stipe; viscidium subelliptic, slightly broader than stipe.
  "Reference": "*Penkimia* may be related to *Ascocentrum* and *Holcoglossum*. *Chenorchis singchii* was described as a new genus and species by Liu et al. (Acta Ecol. Sin. 28: 2433-2444. Jun 2008). Its holotype (Yunnan: Tengchong, Wuhe, 1650 m, 16 Feb 2008, *Z. J. Liu 3862*, NOCC) is from the same area as the first Chinese gathering of *P. nagalandensis* (Yunnan: Tengchong, Wuhe, 2000 m, 15 Mar 2007, *X. H. Jin 8923*, PE) reported five months after the publication of *Chenorchis* by Jin and Fan (Acta Bot. Yunnan. 30: 531-532. Oct 2008). *Penkimia* was described as a new genus in 2006 and therefore has priority.*Penkimia* may be related to *Ascocentrum* and *Holcoglossum*. *Chenorchis singchii* was described as a new genus and species by Liu et al. (Acta Ecol. Sin. 28: 2433-2444. Jun 2008). Its holotype (Yunnan: Tengchong, Wuhe, 1650 m, 16 Feb 2008, *Z. J. Liu 3862*, NOCC) is from the same area as the first Chinese gathering of *P. nagalandensis* (Yunnan: Tengchong, Wuhe, 2000 m, 15 Mar 2007, *X. H. Jin 8923*, PE) reported five months after the publication of *Chenorchis* by Jin and Fan (Acta Bot. Yunnan. 30: 531-532. Oct 2008). *Penkimia* was described as a new genus in 2006 and therefore has priority.
  "Synonym": "*Chenorchis* Z. J. Liu, K. W. Liu &amp; L. J. Chen.
