五膜草科",
11.**Pentaphragmataceae**",

> One genus and ca. 25 species: S China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam; two species (one endemic) in China.

## Description
Herbs perennial, ± succulent, without latex. Rhizome elongate, robust, often ± woody. Leaves alternate; leaf blade large, asymmetric at base. Inflorescence an axillary cyme or cincinnus, solitary or 2 or 3 together; pedicels short or absent. Flowers bisexual, actinomorphic except calyx. Calyx tube campanulate or tubular; calyx lobes 5, persistent, often white, unequal in width, often 2 wider and other 3 narrower. Corolla adnate to calyx as far as distal part of calyx, 5-cleft for more than halfway, or nearly fully divided and appearing petaloid, often white. Stamens 5, alternate with corolla lobes, inserted at proximal part of corolla tube; filament glabrous; anther ovoid or long ellipsoid, introrse or almost lateral due to connective being developed and exserted higher than anther cells. Ovary inferior, 2-loculed; ovules numerous; stigma capitate or conic, entire. Fruit an indehiscent berry. Seeds numerous, minute, ovoid or ovoid-globose; testa obviously reticulate.
  "Reference": "Pentaphragmataceae and Campanulaceae are not immediately related, although both are in the Asterales. *Pentaphragma* has quite different flowers, with no hint of the secondary pollen presentation that occurs throughout Campanulaceae s.l. Thus the inflorescence is cymose, usually scorpioid; the sepals are petaloid, with two large ones and three small ones; the corolla is ± deeply lobed; there are nectariferous cavities between septa joining hypanthium to ovary (unique in flowering plants); and the anthers are extrorse (introrse in all Campanulaceae s.l.). In addition, there is no latex; the leaves are distichous, with leaf blades strongly asymmetric; and the endosperm is starchy, the latter condition being extremely uncommon in Campanulaceae s.l.Pentaphragmataceae and Campanulaceae are not immediately related, although both are in the Asterales. *Pentaphragma* has quite different flowers, with no hint of the secondary pollen presentation that occurs throughout Campanulaceae s.l. Thus the inflorescence is cymose, usually scorpioid; the sepals are petaloid, with two large ones and three small ones; the corolla is ± deeply lobed; there are nectariferous cavities between septa joining hypanthium to ovary (unique in flowering plants); and the anthers are extrorse (introrse in all Campanulaceae s.l.). In addition, there is no latex; the leaves are distichous, with leaf blades strongly asymmetric; and the endosperm is starchy, the latter condition being extremely uncommon in Campanulaceae s.l.
