罗氏蝴蝶兰",
8.**Phalaenopsis lobbii** (H. G. Reichenbach) H. R. Sweet Gen. Phalaenopsis. 53. 1980.",

## Description
Roots copious, flattened. Stems clustered, abbreviated, branching basally. Leaves 2-4, subbasal, broadly elliptic, 5-8 × 3.5-4 cm, obliquely bilobed. Inflorescences erect racemes, 5-10 cm, 2-4-flowered; floral bracts minute, elliptic, obtuse. Flowers white, swollen base of column with a few irregularly distributed brown spots, with a regular pair of darker brown spots below apices of swellings, leading edges of lateral lobes of lip brown spotted, mid-lobe white with 2 broad, longitudinal chestnut-brown stripes; pedicel and ovary to 1.5 cm. Dorsal sepal oblong-elliptic, concave, to 10 × 5 mm, obtuse; lateral sepals somewhat reflexed, obliquely ovate to suborbicular, to 8 × 7 mm, obtuse-rounded, adnate to column foot. Petals obovate-subspatulate, to 8 × 4 mm, obtuse-rounded; lip 3-lobed; lateral lobes erect, falcate, parallel to middle and then diverging and forming a U-shaped structure, to 3 × 1 mm, acute; mid-lobe reniform, to 6 × 10 mm, concave with lateral margins shallowly incurved, rounded-obtuse; basal callus of 4 filiform appendages superposed over a semicircular, ± reniform callus with minutely irregularly subdenticulate margins. Column to 5 mm, somewhat arcuate. Fl. Mar-May.
  "Reference": "A recent record of *Phalaenopsis lobbii* from Lincang, Yunnan (Q. Liu et al., Acta Phytotax. Sin. 45: 855-856. 2007), refers in fact to *P. malipoensis*.A recent record of *Phalaenopsis lobbii* from Lincang, Yunnan (Q. Liu et al., Acta Phytotax. Sin. 45: 855-856. 2007), refers in fact to *P. malipoensis*.
  "Statistics": "Epiphytic on tree trunks in open forests; below 600 m. SE Yunnan (Malipo) [Bhutan, India, Myanmar, Vietnam].
  "Synonym": "*Phalaenopsis parishii* H. G. Reichenbach var. *lobbii* H. G. Reichenbach, Refug. Bot. (Saunders) 2: ad t. 85. 1869; *Doritis lobbii* (H. G. Reichenbach) T. Yukawa &amp; K. Kita; *Polychilos lobbii* (H. G. Reichenbach) Shim.
