斜翼科",
29.**Plagiopteraceae** Airy Shaw",

> Baas et al. (Grana 18: 69-89. 1979) provided two interpretations of the perianth, one similar to the above (although with petals (3 or)4(or 5)) and another in which the inner whorl is regarded as a calyx, the outer whorl as bracteoles or an epicalyx, and the corolla consequently absent.&lt;p&gt;&lt;p&gt;In their detailed review, Baas et al. (loc. cit.) were unable to place *Plagiopteron* with any confidence and concluded that the genus deserved family rank, following Airy Shaw’s earlier concept (Kew Bull. 18: 249-273. 1965). The molecular evidence presented in abstract by Simmons et al. (Amer. J. Bot. 87(6, Abstracts): 156-157. 2000) placed *Plagiopteron* clearly in the Celastraceae, close to the Hippocrateoid genera. Savolainen et al. (Kew Bull. 55: 257-306. 2000) and Soltis et al. (Bot. J. Linn. Soc. 133: 381-461. 2000) similarly placed the genus. The general appearance of the plant, a woody climber with fairly large opposite leaves, small flowers in many-flowered terminal cymes, and fruit with *Acer*-like wings supports this affinity. Further similarities were found in the elastic material of the leaf midrib vascular cylinder. The pollen of *Plagiopteron* is apparently unusual for Celastraceae (Baas et al., loc. cit.).&lt;p&gt;&lt;p&gt;Chang Hung-ta. 1989. *Plagiopteron*. *In:* Chang Hung-ta, ed., Fl. Reipubl. Popularis Sin. 49(1): 48-50.

## Description
Lianas climbing, woody, laticiferous. Branches and branchlets densely stellate hairy. Leaves opposite, simple, pinnately veined; stipules 2, free, minute. Inflorescence axillary, paniculate, multi-flowered, densely stellate hairy. Flowers bisexual, small. Calyx (2-)4(or 5)-partite, segments unequal in length. Petals 3, rarely 4, sepal-like, reflexed. Stamens numerous; filaments free; anthers 4-celled but becoming 2-celled at dehiscence. Ovary 3-loculed, sessile, superior, densely tomentose; ovules 2 per locule; style 1, subulate; stigma minutely 3-lobed. Fruit a capsule, not fleshy, dehiscent but finally septicidal with 3 apical spatulate wings. Seeds unknown.
  "Statistics": "One species: S China, Myanmar, Thailand.
