粉绿早熟禾",
21d.**Poa pratensis subsp. pruinosa** (Korotky) Dickoré",

> This race is native to China. The inclusion of *Poa tianschanica* s.s. needs further study. *Poa pruinosa* s.s. (including *P. grisea*) includes plants from E Siberia with a profuse, waxy bloom and culms strongly flattened at the base. The types of *P. markgrafii* and *P. pamirica* seem typical of the subspecies. Plants without a waxy bloom, with stiff culms that are weakly flattened at base, occurring from the Altai, Khakass, and Tuva in Siberia southward through C Asia, are sometimes distinguished as *P. tianschanica* s.s. Tzvelev (Zlaki SSSR, 459. 1976) treated these as one species, possibly derived from hybridization between *P. pratensis* and *P. tibetica*. *Poa pachyantha* seems to fit within *P. pratensis* subsp. *pruinosa*; although the culms are not flattened, the lower sheaths are flattened and somewhat keeled, and the plants are gray with anthocyanic spikelets that are somewhat clustered. *Poa sabulosa* (Turczaninow ex Roshevitz) Turczaninow ex Roshevitz was reported in FRPS (9(2): 102. 2002) from Heilongjiang, in low, wet, sandy places by river banks, lake shores, seashores, and saline meadows. No voucher was seen, and it is doubtfully present in China. In Russia it is considered a narrow endemic of subsaline meadows in the Baikal region of Siberia and N Mongolia, and is treated as a low-growing (10–30 cm), small-spikeleted (lemmas 2.3–2.8 mm) race, as *P. pratensis* subsp. *sabulosa* (Turczaninow ex Roshevitz) Tzvelev, or lumped within *P. pratensis* subsp. *pruinosa* s.l.

## Description
Plants grayish green, loosely tufted, not forming turf; shoots mainly extravaginal, often curved upward. Culms often decumbent, 15–70 cm tall, solitary or infrequently few per tuft, 1–2 mm in diam., nodes 2 or 3, uppermost node less than 1/3 way up. Blades flat or usually folded with margins inrolled, moderately papery to thickly papery, 2–5 mm wide, of tillers folded, thickly papery and firm, usually distinctly curved, 3–10(–18) cm × (1–)2–5 mm, often adaxially sparsely pubescent; ligule 0.5–4 mm, abaxially scabrid (rarely smooth). Panicle usually loosely contracted, oblong to pyramidal, somewhat lax, 4–10(–15) cm; branches ascending to spreading, (1–)2–5(–7) per node, smooth or distally scabrid, longest with spikelets in distal 1/3–1/2. Spikelets usually grayish and purple tinged, 3–6(–7) mm, florets 2–5(–7); lower glume 2.5–3.5 mm, 1- or 3-veined, upper glume 3–4 mm, 3-veined; lemmas ovate to lanceolate, 3–4.5 mm, apex acute, keel villous for 2/3 of length, marginal veins for 1/2; palea keels scabrid, glabrous or infrequently medially pilulose. Anthers 2–2.5 mm. Fl. and fr. Jun–Sep. 2*n* = 42.

> Mountains, moist weakly saline or alkaline grassy places, alpine river banks, marshy grasslands in the north. Gansu, Heilongjiang, Qinghai, Sichuan, Xinjiang, Xizang, Yunnan [Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Pakistan, Russia (Siberia), Tajikistan].
  "Synonym": "*Poa pruinosa* Korotky, Repert. Spec. Nov. Regni Veg. 13: 291. 1914; *P. grisea* Korotky; *P. macrocalyx* var. *tianschanica* Regel; *P. markgrafii* H. Hartmann; *P. pachyantha* Keng ex Shan Chen; *P. pamirica* Roshevitz ex Ovczinnikov; *P. tians-chanica* (Regel) Hackel ex O. Fedtschenko.
**55.天山早熟禾 图版16: 13**

Poa tianschanica (Regel.) Hack. ex Fedtsch. in Tr. Peterb. Bot. Sada 21:441. 1903; Tzvel. , Nov. Sist. Vyssh. Rast. 11:27. 1974. et Fed. Poac. URSS 459. 1976. ——Poa macrocalyx β. tianschanica Regel. Tr. Peterb. Bot. Sada 7, 2:619. 1881.

多年生，具根状茎，疏丛。秆直立，高30-50厘米，带蓝色。叶鞘平滑无毛；叶舌钝圆，长2-4毫米，被微毛；叶片扁平或对折，质厚，长约8厘米，宽3-4毫米，上面贴生细毛，边缘微粗糙。圆锥花序稠密，长5-9厘米，宽约2厘米，分枝3-6枚，簇生各节，平滑，上部密生4-5枚小穗；小穗长5-6（-7)毫米，第一颖长3-3.5毫米，具1脉，第二颖长3-4毫米；小穗轴被细毛；外稃长3.5-4.2毫米，紫色，间脉明显，脊与边脉下部具柔毛，基盘具绵毛，内稃两脊具丝状毛，上部粗，花药紫色，长2-2.5毫米。花果期7-8月。

产新疆（昭苏、博乐、天山、阿勒泰、尼勒克、伊吾、吐鲁番、塔什库尔干、策勒）、青海、西藏。生于山地草原、森林沼泽草甸，海拔1800-4200米。分布于俄罗斯西伯利亚、中亚、帕米尔、喜马拉雅西部、蒙古、日本。模式标本采自天山。
