吞天井耳蕨",
194.**Polystichum puteicola** Li Bing Zhang H. He & Q. Luo, Bot. Stud. (Taipei). 51: 128. 2010.",

> *Polystichum puteicola* is most similar to *P. obliquum* in stature, pinna shape, and pinna size, but *P. puteicola* has the lamina widest at the base, stipe scales blackish brown adaxially, rachis scales up to 3.6 × 0.8 mm, pinnae oblong, dark green, nearly leathery, shiny adaxially, and slightly repand-serrate or subentire, and microscales brown and up to 2 × 0.5 mm. In contrast, *P. obliquum* has a narrowly oblanceolate lamina with the basal pair of pinnae contracted, stipe scales brown adaxially, rachis scales up to 2.3 × 0.5 mm, pinnae rhombic-ovate or rarely oblong, green, papery, dull adaxially, and serrulate, and microscales brownish and 0.5-0.8 × 0.2-0.3 mm.*Polystichum puteicola* is also similar to *P. paradeltodon* in stature and pinna size but differs in having fronds thicker and dark green and pinnae oblong, ± reflexed, with basiscopic base attached at 30°-90° angle with rachis (vs. fronds thinner, green or yellowish green, and pinnae falcate-triangular, attached at 100°-110° angle with rachis).

## Description
Plants evergreen. Rhizome ascending, 0.5-1 cm; scales brown, linear, 0.2-3.6 mm; roots dark brown when dry, up to 9 cm, ca. 0.6 mm in diam., sparsely or densely covered with scales. Fronds 4-7 per rhizome, 5-14 cm; stipe green, 2-6 cm, 0.6-1.2 mm in diam. at middle; basal stipe scales ovate-lanceolate, 3.6-4.5 × 1.1-2.3 mm, papery, abaxially brown and dull, adaxially flat, dark brown and shiny, margins ciliate or erose, apices acuminate or caudate; distal stipe scales brown, ovate-lanceolate, 2.7-3.7 × 1.1-2.1 mm, varying in size, membranous, composed of 1 layer of cells, margins regularly ciliate or with outgrowths, apices caudate, matte. Lamina 1-pinnate, shiny adaxially, lanceolate, 3.5-9.5 × 1.2-2.6 cm at middle, 1.3-2.7 cm wide and broadest at base, apex acute; rachis 0.7-1.2 mm in diam. at middle, without proliferous bulbils; scales of rachis similar to distal stipe scales but smaller, varying in size, margins regularly ciliate, apices caudate, matte. Pinnae 6-14 pairs, remote, strongly reflexed toward lamina base, basal two pairs 0.7-1.5 cm apart, alternate, oblong, middle pinnae 7.5-12 × 3.5-5.5 mm, basal pinnae slightly larger, shortly stalked, acroscopic base slightly auriculate, basiscopic base cuneate, forming 30°-90° angle with rachis, apices acute, margins crenate or subentire, without spinules; abaxially scaly, adaxially glabrous; microscales on abaxial surface subulate with dilated base (broad-type microscales), 0.5-1.1 mm, base 0.13-0.26 mm wide, with few tortuous outgrowths on margin of base; frond texture thinly leathery; venation pinnate; midrib slightly raised abaxially, flat adaxially; lateral veins free, 4 or 5 pairs from midrib per pinna, each lateral vein further dichotomous, indistinct on both surfaces. Sori terminal on veins of pinnae, 5-9 (1-3 below midrib, 4-6 above midrib) per fertile pinna, located approximately at middle between midrib and pinna margin and 0.9-1.6 mm distant from pinna margin; all pinnae on fertile lamina fertile; indusia brown, 0.8-1.2 mm in diam., erose. Spores subglobose in polar view, elliptic in equatorial view, ca. 32.5(28-37) × 43.5(36-48) × 34.2(31-38) µm (polar axis × long equatorial axis × short equatorial axis, respectively); perispore sculpturing cristate with numerous spinules ca. 0.5 µm.

> ● Limestone walls inside karst sinkholes; ca. 1700 m. NW Guizhou (Bijie).
