渝黔耳蕨",
134.**Polystichum normale** Ching ex P. S. Wang & Li Bing Zhang Novon. 22: 250. 2012.",

> *Polystichum normale* is similar to *P. tripteron* and *P. hancockii*. *Polystichum normale* is distinguished from *P. tripteron* by its toothed, oblong or almost rectangular pinnae with acute apices and its basal pinnae that are simple, pinnatifid, or 1-pinnate. The basalmost pinnae of *P. normale* are almost as long as to twice as long as the median pinnae. In contrast, *P. tripteron* has coarsely serrate and falcate-lanceolate pinnae with acuminate apices and basal pinnae ca. six times as long as the median pinnae.*Polystichum normale* differs from *P. hancockii* in having sori closer to the pinna margins (vs. slightly closer to the midrib) and indusia larger, 0.6-0.8 mm in diam. (vs. only 0.3-0.4 mm). In addition, the basal pinnae of *P. normale* can be simple or pinnatifid or 1-pinnate, while those of *P. hancockii* are consistently 1-pinnate (at least some laminae on any given plant of *P. hancockii* have 1-pinnate basal pinnae).Material of *Polystichum normale* was included in *P. leveillei* in FRPS (5(2): 175. 2001). Genuine *P. leveillei* has simple basal pinnae and thin stipes and is a calciphilous member of *P.* sect. *Haplopolystichum* s.s. occurring in karst caves in S Guizhou (Luodian and Ziyun).

## Description
Plants evergreen. Rhizome ascending or erect, short, 0.5-2 cm; scales light brown to brown, ovate-lanceolate, 3-4 mm, papery; roots dark brown to brown when dry, up to 7 cm, 0.2-0.3 mm in diam., sparsely covered with hairlike scales. Fronds 4-7 per rhizome, (11-)16-33 cm; stipe green, stramineous when dry, (4-)6-17 cm, (0.4-)0.7-2.6 mm in diam. at middle; basal stipe scales dull, ovate-lanceolate, 5-7 × 1.2-1.5 mm, varying in size, thinly papery and brown at middle, membranous and light brown on margin, entire, acuminate or caudate; distal stipe scales similar but narrower and shorter toward rachis apex, light brown, dull, lanceolate or ovate-lanceolate, membranous, ciliate, caudate. Lamina 1-pinnate, lanceolate, (6-)9-27 × 1.9-3.3 cm at middle, slightly contracted toward base, acuminate; rachis 0.7-1.3 mm in diam. at middle, without proliferous bulbils; scales light brown, dull, 1.5-3 × 0.3-0.7 mm at base, varying in size, membranous, margins ciliate, apices caudate. Pinnae 14-28 pairs, approximate, angled acroscopically, basalmost pairs simple, pinnatifid or 1-pinnate, 8-35 × 3.5-12 mm, basal two pairs 0.7-1.4 cm apart, alternate, green, oblong to rectangular, middle pinnae 9-17 × 3.5-7.2 mm, shortly stalked, stalks ca. 1.2 mm; acroscopic base auriculate, basiscopic base truncate and often forming a (90°-)100°-110° angle with rachis, apices acute or rounded but mucronate; acroscopic margins repand-serrate; abaxially scaly, adaxially glabrous; microscales on abaxial surface subulate without dilated base (narrow-type microscales), 0.1-0.23 mm, base 0.05-0.1 mm wide; frond texture papery; venation pinnate; midrib abaxially slightly raised, adaxially flat and invisible; lateral veins free, 4-7 pairs from midrib per pinna, each lateral vein further dichotomous, indistinct on both surfaces. Sori terminal on veins of pinnae, (1-)4-8 per fertile pinna, between midrib and pinna margin and 0.7-2.2 mm distant from pinna margin; all pinnae on fertile lamina fertile; indusia brown, 0.6-0.8 mm in diam., membranous, erose. Spores dark brown when fresh, circular in polar view, elliptic in equatorial view, ca. 50.5 × 41.3 µm (polar axis × equatorial axis); perispore sculpturing irregularly perforate with few ridges and numerous spinules.

> ● Thick acidic soils derived from sandstone in forests, shaded places in valleys; 600-1900 m. S Chongqing, NE and SE Guizhou, NW Hunan.
