绢冠茜属",
71.**Porterandia** Ridley Bull. Misc. Inform. Kew. 1939: 593. 1940.",

> About 22 species: S and SE Asia, Pacific islands; one species (endemic) in China.

## Description
Shrubs or trees, [sometimes dioecious], unarmed. Raphides absent. Leaves opposite, sometimes anisophyllous, sometimes with domatia; stipules persistent, interpetiolar to shortly united around stem, triangular. Inflorescences pseudoaxillary [or terminal], cymose to thyrsiform, few to several flowered, pedunculate, bracteate. Flowers sessile to pedicellate, bisexual [or unisexual]. Calyx limb well developed, 5-lobed. Corolla white, salverform, outside densely sericeous, inside variously glabrous or pubescent; lobes 5(or 6), convolute in bud. Stamens 5, inserted in upper part of corolla tube, included or partially exserted; filaments very short or absent; anthers dorsifixed. Ovary 2-celled, ovules numerous in each cell on axile placentas; stigma clavate or fusiform, bifid, striate, included or perhaps exserted. Fruit perhaps yellow to brown, baccate, fleshy to woody, subglobose or obovoid, with calyx limb tardily deciduous; seeds numerous, medium-sized, ellipsoid or reniform, flattened, embedded in pulp.
  "Reference": "Formerly several African species were included in *Porterandia*, but these have separated as *Aoranthe* Somers (see Somers, Bull. Jard. Bot. Natl. Belg. 58: 47-75. 1988). Puff et al. (Rubiaceae of Thailand, 64. 2005) reported that the calyx limb is persistent in fruit in *Porterandia*, but their own figure seems to show it deciduous; on herbarium specimens of various *Porterandia* species the calyx limb appears to fall as the fruit approach mature size. W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(1): 386. 1999) reported that the corolla lobes are rarely 6, but this number has not been reported by other authors; it is not clear if this number is consistent or is a report of infrequent unusual flowers, which occurs periodically in many species of Rubiaceae. W. C. Chen and Puff et al. described the stamens and stigmas as included, but they are shown as exserted in Chen’s figure (loc. cit.: 385, t. 101). W. C. Chen (loc. cit.: 384) also described the ovary as incompletely 4-celled, but no other authors have reported this.Formerly several African species were included in *Porterandia*, but these have separated as *Aoranthe* Somers (see Somers, Bull. Jard. Bot. Natl. Belg. 58: 47-75. 1988). Puff et al. (Rubiaceae of Thailand, 64. 2005) reported that the calyx limb is persistent in fruit in *Porterandia*, but their own figure seems to show it deciduous; on herbarium specimens of various *Porterandia* species the calyx limb appears to fall as the fruit approach mature size. W. C. Chen (in FRPS 71(1): 386. 1999) reported that the corolla lobes are rarely 6, but this number has not been reported by other authors; it is not clear if this number is consistent or is a report of infrequent unusual flowers, which occurs periodically in many species of Rubiaceae. W. C. Chen and Puff et al. described the stamens and stigmas as included, but they are shown as exserted in Chen’s figure (loc. cit.: 385, t. 101). W. C. Chen (loc. cit.: 384) also described the ovary as incompletely 4-celled, but no other authors have reported this.
  "Synonym": "*Randia* sect. *Anisophyllea* J. D. Hooker, Fl. Brit. India 3: 113. 1880.
**56. 绢冠茜属 Porterandia Ridl.**

Ridl. in Kew Bull. 593. 1939; Keay in Bull. Jard. Bot. Brux. 28: 23. 1958; K. M. Wong in Malay. Nat. Journ. 38: 44. 1984. ——Randia Linn. Sect. Anisophyllea Hook. f. in Benth. et Hook. f. Gen. Pl. 2: 89. 1873; Hook. f. Fl. Brit. Ind. 3: 113. 1880; K. Schum. in Engl. u. Prantl, Nat. Pflanzenfam. IV (4): 75. 1891.

无刺灌木或乔木，通常被毛。叶对生，常不相等，具柄或近无柄；托叶基部常联合，稀分离。聚伞花序生于上部叶腋，常具总花梗，被毛；苞片很小，卵形，顶端短尖；花两性；花萼管被柔毛，萼裂片5；花冠白色，高脚碟状，外面被白色绢毛，内面常无毛，冠管圆柱状，花冠裂片通常5，旋转状排列，冠管与裂片等长或较裂片长；雄蕊5枚，生于冠管上部，和花冠裂片互生；花丝极短或近无，花药线状长圆形，背着，内藏；柱头棒状或纺锤状，内藏，2裂，裂片粘合，子房2室至不完全的4室，每室有胚珠多颗，中轴胎座。浆果近球形或倒卵形，外果皮薄，内果皮木质，薄；种子常多数，小，扁平，椭圆形或肾形。

约15种，分布于亚洲南部和东南部至非洲。我国有1种，分布于广西和云南。

本属模式种：Porterandia anisophylla (Jack ex Roxb.) Ridl.
