似多叶委陵菜",
16.**Potentilla polyphylloides** H. Ikeda & H. Ohba",

> *Potentilla polyphylloides* differs from *P. polyphylla* in having flowering stems occasionally rooting from the nodes in the lower part, and leaflets abaxially, pedicels, and epicalyx segments abaxially with glandular, multicellular hairs. *Potentilla fallens* differs from *P. polyphylloides* in having epicalyx segments shorter than the sepals, subentire at the margin or shallowly 2- or 3-serrate, and a style nearly 2 × as long as the ovary.

## Description
Herbs perennial. Flowering stems ascending or prostrate, 17–60 cm tall, appressed or ascending unicellular hairy, occasionally rooting from nodes in lower part. Radical leaves 8–20 cm including petiole; auricles of stipules free; petiole 0.8–3.5 cm, ascending or spreading unicellular hairy; leaf blade interrupted pinnate with 10–15 pairs of leaflets; leaflets abaxially glandular multicellular hairy and ascending unicellular hairy, adaxially appressed or ascending unicellular hairy, margin serrate; terminal leaflet oblong to obovate, 1.2–2.4 × 0.7–1.4 cm, larger than lateral leaflets; cauline leaves: auricles of stipules entire at margin, or those on lower part of stem with a few teeth and those on upper part with 10–20 teeth; leaf blade 3-foliolate or pinnate with 2–8 pairs of leaflets, sometimes interrupted pinnate. Flowers 1.1–1.5 cm in diam.; pedicel 1.2–3.8 cm, glandular multicellular hairy. Sepals elliptic to ovate, 2.5–4 × 1.8–4 mm, margin entire, apex obtuse to acute; epicalyx segments oblong to broadly obovate, 2.5–5.5 × 2–4.5 mm, abaxially glandular multicellular hairy, margin usually serrate, apex acute. Petals obovate to broadly so, 5–6.5 × 3.5–7 mm, apex retuse or rounded. Stamens ca. 20, in 3 whorls, 1.2–2.2 mm; anthers sub-basal, globose, 4-loculed. Ovary ellipsoid, smooth; placenta adaxial-lateral near style base; style sub-basal, 0.8–0.9 mm. Achenes many, borne on dome-shaped receptacle, obliquely ellipsoid, 1.2–1.4 mm, smooth. Fl. and fr. Jul–Sept. 2n = 42*.

> Mountain meadows; 3200--3500 m. NW Yunnan (Dali Xian, Yangbi Xian).
