假鱼骨木属",
75.**Psydrax** Gaertner Fruct. Sem. Pl. 1: 125. 1788.",

> About 100 species: tropical Africa and Asia; one species in China.

## Description
Shrubs or small trees [or sometimes scandent], unarmed. Raphides absent. Leaves opposite [or sometimes ternate], sometimes with domatia; stipules persistent, interpetiolar or shortly fused to petioles or united around stem, generally triangular to ovate. Inflorescences axillary, cymose and several flowered [or rarely 1-flowered], sessile to pedunculate, bracteate or bracts reduced. Flowers subsessile to pedicellate, bisexual, monomorphic. Calyx limb truncate or 4- or 5-dentate. Corolla white to yellow, tubular to funnelform, inside variously pubescent; lobes 4 or 5, valvate in bud, markedly reflexed at anthesis. Stamens 4 or 5, inserted in corolla throat, partially to fully exserted; filaments developed, reflexed at anthesis; anthers dorsifixed near base. Ovary 2-celled, ovules 1 in each cell, pendulous from apical placentas; stigma exserted, ovoid to cylindrical, bifid, with style attachment recessed. Fruit generally yellow, drupaceous, fleshy, subglobose to ellipsoid or sometimes dicoccous, with calyx limb persistent; pyrenes 2, 1-celled with 1 seed, bony or cartilaginous; seeds medium-sized, ellipsoid, cylindrical, or plano-convex; testa membranous; endosperm fleshy; radicle ascending.
  "Reference": "The species now treated in *Psydrax* were long included in *Canthium*, but they were separated out and *Psydrax* was revived as a genus by Bridson (Kew Bull. 40: 687-725. 1985), subsequently supported by Lantz and Bremer (Bot. J. Linn. Soc. 146: 272-276. 2004). The type species was published as *\"Psydrax dicoccos,\"* using for the epithet a Greek term that is presumably analogous to \"dicoccus\" or \"dicoccum\" (cf. Stearn, Botanical Latin. 1983, Group II nouns and Group A adjectives, respectively). Bridson was the first author to accept *Psydrax* in almost two centuries, and she clearly and explicitly gave feminine endings to all its species including the type, *P. dicocca*. Thus ICBN Art. 62.1 seems to apply here: the assignment of gender to a genus is based on predominance of usage, not the original publication, and *Psydrax* is here treated as feminine and the epithet of our species as adjectival following Bridson. Bridson also suggested that *P. dicocca* is restricted to Sri Lanka and S India and the Chinese and Malesian plants that have long gone under that name are not conspecific; however, no differences are evident on the specimens studied, and further resolution of this is outside the scope of the current work.The species now treated in *Psydrax* were long included in *Canthium*, but they were separated out and *Psydrax* was revived as a genus by Bridson (Kew Bull. 40: 687-725. 1985), subsequently supported by Lantz and Bremer (Bot. J. Linn. Soc. 146: 272-276. 2004). The type species was published as *\"Psydrax dicoccos,\"* using for the epithet a Greek term that is presumably analogous to \"dicoccus\" or \"dicoccum\" (cf. Stearn, Botanical Latin. 1983, Group II nouns and Group A adjectives, respectively). Bridson was the first author to accept *Psydrax* in almost two centuries, and she clearly and explicitly gave feminine endings to all its species including the type, *P. dicocca*. Thus ICBN Art. 62.1 seems to apply here: the assignment of gender to a genus is based on predominance of usage, not the original publication, and *Psydrax* is here treated as feminine and the epithet of our species as adjectival following Bridson. Bridson also suggested that *P. dicocca* is restricted to Sri Lanka and S India and the Chinese and Malesian plants that have long gone under that name are not conspecific; however, no differences are evident on the specimens studied, and further resolution of this is outside the scope of the current work.
