牟氏辐禾蕨",
2.**Radiogrammitis moorei** Parris & Ralf Knapp",

> Type: China. Taiwan: Taidong, Lan Yu, Mt. Hungtou, 22°03′N 121°32′E, 400-500 m, 8 Aug 2004, *Shih-Wen Chung 7242* (holotype, TAIF! [herbarium no. 211637]).*Radiogrammitis moorei* has tufted marginal hairs similar to those of *R. jagoriana* (Mettenius ex Kuhn) Parris, but it differs in having hydathodes at the vein endings and much shorter stipe hairs.Rhizome with scales. Stipe less than 1 cm, with dense dark reddish brown simple solitary and tufted hairs 0.1-0.2 mm. Lamina narrowly oblanceolate, 3.7-7 × 0.4-0.7 cm, base long attenuate, margin entire, apex bluntly acute; midrib slightly prominent abaxially, slightly prominent to prominent adaxially, concolorous with lamina on both sides; lateral veins invisible, 1-forked, acroscopic branch extending beyond sorus, ± as long as basiscopic branch, ending with a pale hydathode; hairs dark reddish brown, solitary on both surfaces of lamina, solitary and tufted on both sides of midrib and on margin, not of 2 lengths, scattered to dense on abaxial surface, dense on margin, sparse to scattered on adaxial surface, 0.1-0.8 mm. Sori broadly elliptic, slightly sunken, adjacent to midrib, not extending more than halfway to margin. Sporangia setose.Material of this species has been misidentified as *Grammitis fenicis* Copeland. For more details, including keys, see Knapp (Ferns Fern Allies Taiwan, 240, 245, 458, 747-748. 2011).

> ● Epiphytic on tree trunks in wet broad-leaved forests; 400-600 m. Taiwan.
