云南岩芋",
3.**Remusatia yunnanensis** (H. Li & A. Hay) A. Hay World Checkl. & Bibliogr. Araceae. 442. 2002.",

## Description
Herbs, cormous, lithophytes. Tuber purple outside, white inside, globose, ca. 4 cm in diam.; bulbiferous stolons 2-4, creeping, simple, to 100 cm × ca. 4 mm, internodes 5-3.5 cm; bulbils ellipsoid, 1-3 mm, covered by 4 or 5 scales, bristles filiform and hooked, in scale axils bearing some secondary small bulbils. Leaves 2-4; petiole cylindric, 40-60 cm; leaf blade pale green abaxially, green adaxially, ovate, 20-30 × 17-20 cm, subleathery, base peltate and cordate, sinus 4-7 cm; primary veins 4 or 5 on each side, radiating from petiole and pinnately from midrib of main lobe, secondary venation arching-anastomosing, fine intramarginal vein absent. Inflorescences 1-3, flowering when leaves develop; peduncle green, cylindric, 11-17 cm. Spathe tube green outside and inside, ovate-elliptic, ca. 3 × 1.2 cm, leathery, apex strongly constricted; limb initially erect, later spreading and soon reflexed, light purple within and dull purple beneath, base yellowish on both surfaces, obovate-oblong, ca. 8.5 × 3 cm. Spadix: female zone subcylindric, ca. 15 × 6 mm, densely flowered; female flowers 4-carpellate; ovary 1-loculed, green, ovoid, ca. 2 mm; ovules many, basal, suberect; stigma sessile, circular; sterile zone yellow, ca. 14 mm, slender; male zone yellow, broadly cylindric, ca. 17 × 4 mm, attenuate toward base, apex obtuse; synandria of 4 or 5 fused stamens; common filament obconic, apex truncate; thecae 8-10, obovoid, adnate to outside of filament and opening by a terminal pore. Fl. Aug-Sep. 2*n* = 28*.
  "Reference": "The combination *Remusatia yunnanensis* was attempted twice before but was not validly published (*Vienna Code*, Art. 33.4) because the basionym reference was omitted (H. Li &amp; A. Hay, Moscow Aroid Conference 1992 Programme &amp; Abstracts, 36. 1992) and the page number of the basionym reference was omitted (H. Li &amp; A. Hay, Acta Bot. Yunnan., Suppl. 5: 28, 32. 1992).The combination *Remusatia yunnanensis* was attempted twice before but was not validly published (*Vienna Code*, Art. 33.4) because the basionym reference was omitted (H. Li &amp; A. Hay, Moscow Aroid Conference 1992 Programme &amp; Abstracts, 36. 1992) and the page number of the basionym reference was omitted (H. Li &amp; A. Hay, Acta Bot. Yunnan., Suppl. 5: 28, 32. 1992).
  "Statistics": "● Dense rain forests; ca. 1100 m. Yunnan (Yingjiang).
  "Synonym": "*Gonatanthus yunnanensis* H. Li &amp; A. Hay, Acta Bot. Yunnan. 14: 375. 1992.
