墨苜蓿属",
76.**Richardia** Linnaeus Sp. Pl. 1: 330. 1753.",

> Fifteen species: widespread in the Antilles and North and South America, three species naturalized in the Old World tropics; two species (both introduced) in China.

## Description
Herbs, annual or perennial, unarmed. Raphides present. Leaves opposite, without domatia; stipules persistent, interpetiolar and fused to petioles or leaf bases, truncate to rounded, setose. Inflorescences terminal, capitate, several to many flowered, pedunculate and enclosed by paired leaflike bracts (or sessile with involucral leaves in other morphological interpretations), bracteate. Flowers sessile, bisexual, monomorphic. Calyx with ovary portion turbinate to globose, limb deeply 4-8-lobed. Corolla white or pink, funnelform, inside glabrous or pubescent at throat; lobes 4-6, valvate in bud. Stamens 3, 4, or 6, inserted in corolla throat, exserted; filaments developed; anthers dorsifixed near middle. Ovary 3- or 4-celled, ovules 1 in each cell, axile and attached at middle of septum; stigmas 3 or 4, linear or spatulate, exserted. Fruit schizocarpous, subglobose to obovoid or tricoccous, dry, bony, with calyx limb deciduous; mericarps 3 or 4, indehiscent, 1-celled with 1 seed, ellipsoid to angled, usually papillose to muricate on dorsal surface (i.e., abaxially) and with 1 or more grooves and sometimes papillose to muricate on ventral surface (i.e., adaxially); seeds medium-sized, ellipsoid to plano-convex; endosperm corneous; cotyledon leaflike; radicle cylindrical, hypogeous.
  "Reference": "As noted by Chaw and Peng (J. Taiwan Mus. 40: 71-83. 1987), Asian collections of *Richardia* have long been confused in herb. with various other weedy Rubiaceae. *Richardia* was studied in detail by Lewis and Oliver (Brittonia 26: 271-301. 1974). The synonymous name *Richardsonia* has frequently been used for this genus, including in older references about invasive weeds. H. S. Lo (in FRPS 71(2): 203. 1999) described the flowers as sometimes polygamo-dioecious, but the origin of this description is unknown. Lewis and Oliver did not report this condition, although they did mention that the plants frequently have both chasmogamous and cleistogamous flowers. H. S. Lo also described the anthers as dorsifixed near the base, but other authors have all considered them to be dorsifixed near the middle, which agrees with specimens studied.As noted by Chaw and Peng (J. Taiwan Mus. 40: 71-83. 1987), Asian collections of *Richardia* have long been confused in herb. with various other weedy Rubiaceae. *Richardia* was studied in detail by Lewis and Oliver (Brittonia 26: 271-301. 1974). The synonymous name *Richardsonia* has frequently been used for this genus, including in older references about invasive weeds. H. S. Lo (in FRPS 71(2): 203. 1999) described the flowers as sometimes polygamo-dioecious, but the origin of this description is unknown. Lewis and Oliver did not report this condition, although they did mention that the plants frequently have both chasmogamous and cleistogamous flowers. H. S. Lo also described the anthers as dorsifixed near the base, but other authors have all considered them to be dorsifixed near the middle, which agrees with specimens studied.
  "Synonym": "*Ricardia* Adanson; *Richardsonia* Kunth.
  "keylist": "
1 Mature mericarps somewhat dorsiventrally flattened, with 2 broad parallel depressions along length of inner (i.e., adaxial) face.[*R. brasiliensis* 巴西墨苜蓿](Richardia brasiliensis.md)
1 Mature mericarps triangular to somewhat rounded, with 1 narrow grove along length of inner (i.e., adaxial) face.[*R. scabra* 墨苜蓿",](Richardia scabra.md)
**90．墨苜蓿属 Richardia Linn.**

Linn. Sp. Pl. 330. 1753; Lewis et R. L. Oliv. in Brittonia 26: 271-301. 1971. ——Richardsonia Kunth in Mem. Mus. Par IV. 430, t. 20. 1818; DC. Prodr. 4: 567. 1830; Hook. f. in Benth.面具et Hook. f. Gen. Pl. 2: 147. 1873; K. Schum. in Engl. u. Prantl, Nat. Pflanzenfam. IV (4): 139, fig. 45 (A. B.). 1891.

草本，直立或平卧。叶对生，无柄或有柄；托叶与叶柄合生成鞘状，上部分裂成丝状或钻状的裂片多条。花序头状，顶生，有叶状总苞片；花小，白色或粉红色，两性或有时杂性异株；萼管陀螺状或球状，檐部4-8裂，裂片披针形至钻形，宿存；花冠漏斗状，喉部无毛，檐部3-6裂，裂片卵形或披针形，芽时镊合状排列；雄蕊3-6，着生于花冠喉部，花丝丝状，花药近基部背着，线形或长圆形，伸出；花盘不明显；子房3-4室，花柱有3-4个线状或匙形的分枝，伸出；胚珠每室1颗，生于隔膜中部。蒴果成熟时萼檐自基部环状裂开而脱落；种子背部平凸，腹面有2直槽，胚乳角质；子叶叶状，胚根柱状，向下。

属模式：R. scabra Linn.
<p style='text-indent:28px'>约15种，分布于中、南美洲。多为旷野或耕地杂草，现广布于全世界的热带和亚热带；我国仅1种。
