茜草",
5.**Rubia cordifolia** Linnaeus Syst. Nat., ed. 12. 3: 229. 1768.",

## Description
Vines, herbaceous, climbing or scrambling herbs, with red rhizomatous base and roots; stems to 3.5 m, several to many from base, often much branched, quadrangular, glabrous to puberulent, with ribs rounded to thinly winged, sparsely to densely retrorsely aculeolate. Leaves in whorls of 4 or more (up to 8 or rarely 12); petiole (1-)1.5-3(-6) cm; blade drying papery to thickly papery, usually remaining ± greenish, lanceolate, oblong-lanceolate, ovate, or oblong-ovate, (1-)1.5-4(-7) × (0.3-)0.5-1.5(-2.5) cm, length/breadth index mostly 2.5-4, glabrous to pilosulous or hirtellous, sparsely to densely scaberulous, base rounded, truncate, cordulate, or cordate, margin serrulate-aculeolate, apex obtuse and apiculate to acute or acuminate; principal veins 3 or 5, palmate. Inflorescences thyrsoid, paniculate, with terminal and axillary, several- to many-flowered cymes; axes glabrous to puberulent or pilosulous, ± aculeolate; bracts linear-lanceolate to ligulate, 1-3 mm; pedicels 1-4 mm. Ovary 0.5-0.8 mm, smooth to scaberulous. Flowers hermaphroditic (rarely polygamo-dioecious?). Corolla pale yellow or greenish yellow, rotate, glabrous, fused base 0.2-0.4 mm; lobes lanceolate, spreading to reflexed, 1.2-1.5 mm, caudate. Mericarp berry becoming orange then apparently black, 4-6 mm in diam. Fl. Aug-Sep, fr. Oct-Nov.
  "Reference": "As noted by most previous authors (Pojarkova, Fl. URSS 23: 387-391. 1958; Ehrendorfer et al., Fl. Iranica 176: 52-53. 2005), the plants included in *Rubia cordifolia* s.l. comprise a geographically very widespread (from E and SE Asia to Afghanistan, from Sudan to S Africa), morphologically extremely \"polymorphic,\" polyploid, and still most insufficiently understood racial complex. Its populations, together with related taxa, have been grouped into *R.* ser. *Cordifoliae* by Pojarkova (loc. cit.), characterized by their generally clambering to climbing habit; leaves and leaflike stipules in whorls of 4 or more, petiolate, palmately 3-7-veined; and corollas rotate to shortly campanulate, with anthers ellipsoid, somewhat curved, and 4-6 × shorter than the corolla lobes. Depending on narrow or wider species concepts and differential characters chosen, the elements of this series have been quite variously treated. In the present flora the following 16 species are assembled in *R.* ser. *Cordifoliae*: 1. *R. alata*, 2. *R. argyi*, 5. *R. cordifolia*, 6. *R. crassipes*, 14. *R. linii*, 17. *R. manjith*, 18. *R. membranacea*, 19. *R. oncotricha*, 20. *R. ovatifolia*, 21. *R. pallida*, 22. *R. podantha*, 25. *R. pterygocaulis*, 27. *R. salicifolia*, 31. *R. sylvatica*, 35. *R. trichocarpa*, and 37. *R. wallichiana*. Species 5, 14, 20, 31, and 37 are so close and linked by occasional intermediates that they can be understood as *R. cordifolia* s.l. or *R. cordifolia* agg. The above species description refers to *R. cordifolia* s.s.As noted by most previous authors (Pojarkova, Fl. URSS 23: 387-391. 1958; Ehrendorfer et al., Fl. Iranica 176: 52-53. 2005), the plants included in *Rubia cordifolia* s.l. comprise a geographically very widespread (from E and SE Asia to Afghanistan, from Sudan to S Africa), morphologically extremely \"polymorphic,\" polyploid, and still most insufficiently understood racial complex. Its populations, together with related taxa, have been grouped into *R.* ser. *Cordifoliae* by Pojarkova (loc. cit.), characterized by their generally clambering to climbing habit; leaves and leaflike stipules in whorls of 4 or more, petiolate, palmately 3-7-veined; and corollas rotate to shortly campanulate, with anthers ellipsoid, somewhat curved, and 4-6 × shorter than the corolla lobes. Depending on narrow or wider species concepts and differential characters chosen, the elements of this series have been quite variously treated. In the present flora the following 16 species are assembled in *R.* ser. *Cordifoliae*: 1. *R. alata*, 2. *R. argyi*, 5. *R. cordifolia*, 6. *R. crassipes*, 14. *R. linii*, 17. *R. manjith*, 18. *R. membranacea*, 19. *R. oncotricha*, 20. *R. ovatifolia*, 21. *R. pallida*, 22. *R. podantha*, 25. *R. pterygocaulis*, 27. *R. salicifolia*, 31. *R. sylvatica*, 35. *R. trichocarpa*, and 37. *R. wallichiana*. Species 5, 14, 20, 31, and 37 are so close and linked by occasional intermediates that they can be understood as *R. cordifolia* s.l. or *R. cordifolia* agg. The above species description refers to *R. cordifolia* s.s.
  "Statistics": "Sparse forests, forest margins, grasslands; 300-2800 m. Anhui, Gansu, Hebei, Hunan, Qinghai, Shandong, Shanxi, Sichuan, Xizang, Yunnan [Japan, Korea, Mongolia, Russia (Far East); S and SE Asia to Sri Lanka and Java, through the Himalaya to Afghanistan; (sub)tropical Africa].
  "Synonym": "*Rubia cordifolia* var. *coriacea* Z. Ying Zhang; *R. cordifolia* subsp. *pratensis* (Maximowicz) Kitamura; *R. cordifolia* var. *pratensis* Maximowicz; *R. cordifolia* var. *rotundifolia* Franchet; *R. pratensis* (Maximowicz) Nakai.
**34. 茜草（汉官仪）图版68: 6-12**

Rubia cordifolia Linn. Syst. Nat. ed. 12, 3: 229. 1768. et Mant. 2: 197. 1771; emend. Gaertn. in Nov. Com. Acad. Petrop. 14: 541. 1770; Pall. Reise Russ. Reich. 3 (2): t. 50, fig. 1. 1776; DC. Prodr. 4: 588. 1830; Nakai in Journ. Jap. Bot. 13: 779, 783. 1937. et 14: 121. 1938; Pojark. in Fl. URSS 23: 387. 1958 (excl. var. sylvatica Maxim.); Hara et Kurosawa in Sci. Rep. Tohoku Univ. Ser. IV (Biol.) 29: 259. 1963. ——R. cordifolia Linn. var. pratensis Maxim. Prim. Fl. Amur. 139. 1859; Kitagawa, Linneam. Fl. Mansh. 405. 1939.——R. cordifolia Linn. var. rotundifolia Franch. Pl. David. 1: 155. 1884.——R. pratensis (Maxim.) Nakai in Journ. Jap. Bot. 13: 781, 783. 1937. ——R. cordifolia Linn. ssp. pratensis (Maxim.) Kitamura in Acta Phytotax. Geobot. 17: 7. 1957.

草质攀援藤木，长通常1.5-3.5米；根状茎和其节上的须根均红色；茎数至多条，从根状茎的节上发出，细长，方柱形，有4棱，棱上生倒生皮刺，中部以上多分枝。叶通常4片轮生，纸质，披针形或长圆状披针形，长0.7-3.5厘米，顶端渐尖，有时钝尖，基部心形，边缘有齿状皮刺，两面粗糙，脉上有微小皮刺；基出脉3条，极少外侧有1对很小的基出脉。叶柄长通常1-2.5厘米，有倒生皮刺。聚伞花序腋生和顶生，多回分枝，有花10余朵至数十朵，花序和分枝均细瘦，有微小皮刺；花冠淡黄色，干时淡褐色，盛开时花冠檐部直径约3-3.5毫米，花冠裂片近卵形，微伸展，长约1.5毫米，外面无毛。果球形，直径通常4-5毫米，成熟时橘黄色。花期8-9月，果期10-11月。

产东北、华北、西北和四川（北部）及西藏（昌都地区）等地。常生于疏林、林缘、灌丛或草地上。分布于朝鲜、日本和俄罗斯远东地区。
