长管越南茜",
1.**Rubovietnamia aristata** Tirvengadum Biogeographica (Paris). 74(4): 167. 1998.",

## Description
Shrubs or small trees, to 5 m tall; branches compressed to terete, densely strigillose or hirtellous to glabrous. Leaves in equal to somewhat unequal pairs except in penultimate pair of each stem 1 leaf reduced to a stipulelike scale; petiole 0.4-1 cm, strigillose to glabrescent; blade drying thickly papery, elliptic or oblanceolate, 4-12 × 1.5-4 cm, adaxially glabrescent to sparsely strigillose, abaxially sparsely strigillose throughout, base cuneate and sometimes asymmetrical, apex acuminate and aristate with tip 1-2 mm, formed by prolongation of midrib and inserted 2-3 mm below apex from tip of blade tissue; secondary veins 7 or 8 pairs, with pilosulous domatia in abaxial axils; stipules deciduous throughout or persistent on distalmost several nodes, deltoid to ovate, 5-6 mm, sparsely strigillose, caudate-acuminate, entire to shortly aristate. Inflorescences 1-4-flowered, densely strigillose; bracts triangular to 3-lobed, 3-4 mm; pedicel and/or peduncle 15-25 mm. Calyx densely strigillose to villosulous; ovary portion ellipsoid to obovoid, 4-5 mm; limb lobed essentially to base; lobes ovate to lanceolate, 7-10 × 3-5 mm, often somewhat unequal on an individual flower, ciliolate, aristate. Corolla salverform, outside densely sericeous-strigose; tube 20-25 mm; lobes obovate to oblanceolate, 10-15 × 3-6 mm, acute or shortly acuminate. Anthers ca. 10 mm, with triangular appendage ca. 0.5 mm. Stigmas ca. 5 mm. Berry 1-1.7 cm in diam., strigillose to glabrescent; seeds 5-7 mm. Fl. May-Jul, fr. Jul.
  "Statistics": "Thickets or forests on limestone hills; 200-1400 m. Guangxi, Yunnan [Vietnam].
