江城珍珠茅",
16.**Scleria jiangchengensis** Y. Y. Qian Bull. Bot. Res., Harbin. 19: 241. 1999.",

## Description
Perennials, stoloniferous. Rhizomes woody, covered with brown scales. Culms laxly tufted to scattered, 70-110 cm tall, 3-4 mm wide, 3-angled, slightly puberulent. Sheath brown to greenish brown at middle part of culm, 1-6 cm, papery, puberulent, wings 1-3 mm wide; contraligules nearly semicircular, puberulent, barbate; leaf blade linear, to 35 cm × 3-8 mm, both surfaces pubescent. Involucral bracts leaflike, sheathing; bractlets setaceous, puberulent, base auriculate. Inflorescences paniculate, with 2-4 lateral branches; branches 2-7 × 1.5-5 cm, slightly distant. Spikelets 1 or 2 in a cluster, greenish purple to dark purple, 3.5-4.5 mm, unisexual. Male spikelets narrowly ovoid; basal glumes 1.5-3.3 mm, thickly membranous; apical glumes thinner and paler. Female spikelets usually at basal part of branch, narrowly ovoid; glumes 5; basal 2 glumes ovate, not keeled; apical 3 glumes ovate to ovate-lanceolate, keeled, apex awned. Male flowers: stamens 3. Female flowers: stigmas 3. Disk yellowish white, slightly narrower than nutlet, deeply 3-lobed, margins partly reflexed. Nutlet white, spherical, 2.5-2.8 mm in diam., 3-sided, reticulate, puberulent, apex tipped. Fl. and fr. Jul-Sep.
  "Reference": "No specimen of this species has been seen by the present authors. The description was adapted from the original protologue of the species.No specimen of this species has been seen by the present authors. The description was adapted from the original protologue of the species.
  "Statistics": "● Forests; 1000-1100 m. Yunnan (Jiangcheng).
