二萼丰花草",
3.**Spermacoce exilis** (L. O. Williams) C. D. Adams Fieldiana, Bot., n.s. 33: 316. 1993.",

## Description
Herbs, annual to perhaps perennial, slender, creeping to weakly ascending, to 30 cm tall; stems 4-angled, puberulent to glabrescent, angles winged, wings 0.1-0.5 mm wide, ciliate or ciliolate. Leaves subsessile to shortly petiolate; petiole to 1.5 mm, puberulent to glabrescent; blade drying membranous, ovate or elliptic-oblong, 0.7-30 × 4-15 mm, sparsely puberulent to glabrous throughout or pilose to hispid along midrib abaxially, base obtuse to cuneate, apex acute to obtuse; secondary veins 2 or 3 pairs; stipules pilosulous or hirtellous to glabrescent, sheath 0.5-1 mm, with 5-10 bristles 0.5-2 mm, often glandular. Inflorescences terminal and in uppermost leaf axils, 3-6 mm in diam., several to many flowered; bracts numerous, filiform, 0.5-1.5 mm. Calyx hirtellous to glabrescent; hypanthium portion obovoid, ca. 0.3 mm; lobes 2, linear-lanceolate to triangular, 0.4-0.9 mm. Corolla white, rotate to shortly tubular, 0.5-0.6 mm, outside glabrous, bearded in throat; lobes spatulate triangular, ± as long as tube. Capsules ellipsoid, weakly to strongly flattened at right angles to septum, 1-1.1 × 0.8-1 mm, glabrescent, membranous and sometimes somewhat hyaline, septicidal from apex then both valves loculicidal through septum or sometimes fragmenting; seeds brownish yellow, ellipsoid, ca. 0.8 × 0.4 mm, obtuse at both ends, shiny, surface apparently with numerous fine horizontal striations or ridges (at 10×; but actually with minute transverse pits, visible at 40×). Fl. and fr. almost year-round.
  "Reference": "The seeds of this species were illustrated in detail by Chaw and Sivarajan (Bot. Bull. Acad. Sin., n.s., 30: 20, f. 28-30. 1989, as *Spermacoce mauritiana*). The taxonomy and circumscription of this adventive species here follows Burger and Taylor (Fieldiana, Bot., n.s., 33: 316. 1993). The illustration presented by Deb and Dutta (J. Econ. Taxon. Bot. 5(5): 1045, f. 2. 1984, as *S. decandollei*) seems to be based on a mixed collection of *S. exilis* and *S. prostrata* according to the circumscription of these species here. Both *S. exilis* and *S. prostrata* were formerly included in a broadly circumscribed, morphologically heterogeneous \"*Spermacoce ocymoides* Burm. f.\" Several authors have concluded that this last name applies to a species found only in SE Asia and was incorrectly applied to American and adventive plants (Dessein, Syst. Stud. Spermacoceae (Ph.D. Diss.), University of Leuven, Belgium, 1-403. 2003, and references cited there); presumably the species treated by Bakhuizen f. in the Fl. Java is \"true\" *S. ocymoides*.The seeds of this species were illustrated in detail by Chaw and Sivarajan (Bot. Bull. Acad. Sin., n.s., 30: 20, f. 28-30. 1989, as *Spermacoce mauritiana*). The taxonomy and circumscription of this adventive species here follows Burger and Taylor (Fieldiana, Bot., n.s., 33: 316. 1993). The illustration presented by Deb and Dutta (J. Econ. Taxon. Bot. 5(5): 1045, f. 2. 1984, as *S. decandollei*) seems to be based on a mixed collection of *S. exilis* and *S. prostrata* according to the circumscription of these species here. Both *S. exilis* and *S. prostrata* were formerly included in a broadly circumscribed, morphologically heterogeneous \"*Spermacoce ocymoides* Burm. f.\" Several authors have concluded that this last name applies to a species found only in SE Asia and was incorrectly applied to American and adventive plants (Dessein, Syst. Stud. Spermacoceae (Ph.D. Diss.), University of Leuven, Belgium, 1-403. 2003, and references cited there); presumably the species treated by Bakhuizen f. in the Fl. Java is \"true\" *S. ocymoides*.
  "Statistics": "Naturalized in disturbed humid sites at low elevations. Hainan, Hong Kong, Taiwan [apparently native to the Neotropics but exact origin unknown; India, Indonesia, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Vietnam; Africa, Antilles, Australia, Central America, Indian Ocean islands (Mauritius), North America (Mexico), Pacific islands, N South America].
  "Synonym": "*Borreria exilis* L. O. Williams, Phytologia 28: 227. 1974, based on *B. gracilis* L. O. Williams, Phytologia 26: 487. 1973, not Scheele (1844), nor *Spermacoce gracilis* Ruiz &amp; Pavon (1798); *B. repens* Candolle; *S. decandollei* Deb &amp; R. M. Dutta, nom. illeg. superfl.; *S. mauritiana* Gideon; *S. repens* (Candolle) Fosberg &amp; D. A. Powell (1980), not Willdenow ex Chamisso &amp; Schlechtendal (1828), nor Sessé &amp; Moci?o (1893), nor Larra?aga (1923).
**5．二萼丰花草（海南植物志）**

Borreria repens DC. Prodr. 4: 542. 1830; 海南植物志3: 362. 1974.

纤细匍匐草本；茎四棱柱形，棱上有狭翅，被毛。叶膜质，卵形或椭圆状长圆形，长1-2 (2.5)厘米，宽5-10毫米，顶端急尖，基部阔楔形，两面无毛或沿下面中脉上被毛；叶柄极短，长1-1.5毫米；托叶鞘短，被毛，顶部有数条长于花萼的刺毛。花多朵轮状簇生于托叶鞘内，无花梗，有丝状、透明、长于萼的小苞片；萼管极短，长不及1毫米；萼檐2裂，裂片线状披针形，与萼等长或略长；花冠白色，冠比萼短，顶部4裂，裂片与管近等长，无毛；花丝极短，花药长圆形。蒴果小，近椭圆形，略扁，长1-1.1毫米，直径0.8-1毫米，近无毛，成熟时从顶部向下开裂，隔膜脱落；种子椭圆形，两端钝，干后褐黄色，有光泽。花果期几乎全年。

产香港和海南的儋县、万宁等县。为少见的矮小草本。分布于印度尼西亚（爪哇）和毛里求斯等地。
