丰花草属",
86.**Spermacoce** Linnaeus Sp. Pl. 1: 102. 1753.",

> About 250-300 species: widespread in tropical to warm temperate regions worldwide with several species widely naturalized; seven species (four introduced) in China.

## Description
Herbs, annual or perennial, subshrubs, or low shrubs [rarely dioecious], unarmed. Raphides present. Leaves opposite, sometimes borne on very short axillary stems and these plus long-stem leaves appearing whorled or fascicled, without domatia; stipules persistent, fused to petiole bases or leaves, sheath truncate to broadly rounded or broadly triangular, usually thinly textured, with (1 or)2-11 bristles to multi-fimbriate, bristles occasionally glandular at apex. Inflorescences terminal and/or axillary, capitate or glomerulate, several to many flowered, sessile, bracteate, often partially enclosed in an expanded stipule sheath; bracts usually filiform-laciniate or stipuliform. Flowers sessile or subsessile, bisexual, monomorphic [or rarely distylous or unisexual]. Calyx limb deeply to completely 2- or 4[-8]-lobed, lobes sometimes unequal in pairs. Corolla white sometimes flushed with blue or pink [to sometimes pink, red, blue, or violet], salverform to funnelform, inside variously glabrous throughout, pubescent in throat or throughout, or usually with a ring of pubescence at stamen insertion; lobes 4, valvate in bud [and infrequently with abaxial horns or appendages]. Stamens 4, inserted in corolla throat to near base of tube, included or exserted; filaments short or developed; anthers dorsifixed. Ovary 2-celled, ovules 1 in each cell, axile near middle of septum; stigma capitate or 2-lobed with lobes short to linear, included or exserted. Fruit capsular, ellipsoid to subglobose, septicidally then loculicidally dehiscent with valves remaining joined at base [or sometimes separating completely or remaining connected at apex or partially schizocarpous with 1 valve loculicidal and 1 valve indehiscent], papery to thickly textured, with calyx limb persistent; seeds medium-sized, ellipsoid to subglobose, with ventral (i.e., adaxial) groove, with testa thin, smooth to variously ornamented including minutely pitted to rugose, ruminate, and/or reticulate; endosperm corneous or fleshy; cotyledons leaflike; hypocotyl terete, basiscopic.
  "Reference": "These species were treated in the genus *Borreria* by W. C. Ko (in FRPS 71(2): 205-210. 1999); *B. shandongensis* as treated by Ko is here considered a synonym of *Diodia teres*. *Borreria* has traditionally been separated from *Spermacoce* based on fruit dehiscence, with both of the fruit valves dehiscent in *Borreria* vs. one dehiscent and one indehiscent in *Spermacoce* (vs. both indehiscent in *Diodia*), but based on pantropical surveys of this group and molecular data the majority of authors today include *Borreria* in *Spermacoce* (Verdcourt, Fl. Trop. E. Africa, Rub. (Pt. 1), 339-374. 1976; Deb &amp; Dutta, J. Econ. Taxon. Bot. 5(5): 1037-1063. 1984; Chaw &amp; Peng, J. Taiwan Mus. 40(1): 71-83. 1987; Dessein, Syst. Stud. Spermacoceae (Ph.D. Diss.), University of Leuven, Belgium, 1-403. 2003). The treatment here follows recent neotropical studies as to the separation of and names used for the adventive neotropical species (Burger &amp; Taylor, Fieldiana, Bot., n.s., 33: 1-333. 1993; C. D. Adams, Flora Mesoamericana, in prep.). In particular, seed coat sculpture or texture is informative at the species level, though it must be observed at high magnification (Dessein, loc. cit.); Chaw and Sivarajan (Bot. Bull. Acad. Sin., n.s., 30: 15-24. 1989) illustrated seed coats of many Chinese species. Pollen is also informative in this group (e.g., Dessein et al., Australian J. Bot. 18: 367-382. 2005) but is incompletely studied.These species were treated in the genus *Borreria* by W. C. Ko (in FRPS 71(2): 205-210. 1999); *B. shandongensis* as treated by Ko is here considered a synonym of *Diodia teres*. *Borreria* has traditionally been separated from *Spermacoce* based on fruit dehiscence, with both of the fruit valves dehiscent in *Borreria* vs. one dehiscent and one indehiscent in *Spermacoce* (vs. both indehiscent in *Diodia*), but based on pantropical surveys of this group and molecular data the majority of authors today include *Borreria* in *Spermacoce* (Verdcourt, Fl. Trop. E. Africa, Rub. (Pt. 1), 339-374. 1976; Deb &amp; Dutta, J. Econ. Taxon. Bot. 5(5): 1037-1063. 1984; Chaw &amp; Peng, J. Taiwan Mus. 40(1): 71-83. 1987; Dessein, Syst. Stud. Spermacoceae (Ph.D. Diss.), University of Leuven, Belgium, 1-403. 2003). The treatment here follows recent neotropical studies as to the separation of and names used for the adventive neotropical species (Burger &amp; Taylor, Fieldiana, Bot., n.s., 33: 1-333. 1993; C. D. Adams, Flora Mesoamericana, in prep.). In particular, seed coat sculpture or texture is informative at the species level, though it must be observed at high magnification (Dessein, loc. cit.); Chaw and Sivarajan (Bot. Bull. Acad. Sin., n.s., 30: 15-24. 1989) illustrated seed coats of many Chinese species. Pollen is also informative in this group (e.g., Dessein et al., Australian J. Bot. 18: 367-382. 2005) but is incompletely studied.
  "Synonym": "*Bigelovia* Sprengel (1824), not Smith (1819), nor Sprengel (1820), nor *Bigelowia* Rafinesque (1817), nor Candolle (1836, nom. cons.); *Borreria* G. Meyer (1818, nom. cons.), not *Borrera* Acharius (1810) [Fungi].
  "keylist": "
1 Corolla relatively small, with tube plus lobes 0.5-1 mm, with corolla tube shorter than, ± equal to, or slightly longer than calyx lobes; calyx lobes 2 or 4; mature fruit 0.6-1.1 × 0.3-1 mm——(2)
1 Corollas larger, with tube alone 0.5-10 mm and longer than calyx lobes; calyx lobes 4; mature fruit 1-5 × 1-3.5 mm——(3)
2(1) Stem angles narrowly winged; leaf blade ovate or elliptic-oblong, 4-15 mm wide; seed coat apparently covered by numerous fine horizontal striations or ridges.[*S. exilis* 二萼丰花草](Spermacoce exilis.md)
2 Stems smooth to angled, angles without wings; leaf blade narrowly elliptic-oblong to elliptic, 1-10 mm wide; seed coat with coarse rounded pits arranged in longitudinal (i.e., vertical) rows.[*S. prostrata* 匍匐丰花草](Spermacoce prostrata.md)
3(1) Fruit 1-2 × 1-1.5 mm; leaves linear-oblong or narrowly elliptic, 2.5-16 mm wide; corolla tubes 0.5-1.5 mm——(4)
3 Fruit 2.2-5 × 1.5-3.5 mm; leaves elliptic, ovate-oblong, oblong-ellipsoid, obovate, or spatulate, 3-40 mm wide——(5)
4(3) Leaves linear-oblong, 2.5-6 mm wide; seeds appearing smooth.[*S. pusilla* 丰花草](Spermacoce pusilla.md)
4 Leaves narrowly elliptic to lanceolate, 4-16 mm wide; seeds transversely ruminate-rugose with irregular deep grooves.[*S. remota* 光叶丰花草](Spermacoce remota.md)
5(3) Leaf blade elliptic or ovate-oblong, usually widest near middle, 12-75 × 6-40 mm; plants often drying yellowish green; corolla tube 2-3 mm.[*S. alata* 阔叶丰花草](Spermacoce alata.md)
5 Leaf blade oblong-elliptic, obovate, or spatulate, usually widest above middle, 10-30 × 3-18 mm; plants usually drying dull green to grayish; corolla tube 2.5-10 mm——(6)
6(5) Mature seeds 2-2.5 mm, oblong to elliptic-oblong in outline, brown; corolla tube slender, 6.5-10 mm.[*S. articularis* 长管糙叶丰花草](Spermacoce articularis.md)
6 Mature seeds 2.2-3 mm, elliptic to elliptic-oblong in outline, black; corolla tube funnelform, 2.5-4.5 mm.[*S. hispida* 糙叶丰花草",](Spermacoce hispida.md)
