焕镛螺序草",
5.**Spiradiclis chuniana** R. J. Wang Novon. 12: 423. 2002.",

## Description
Herbs, annual, to 8 cm tall, mostly unbranched, perhaps ascending; stems densely villous. Petiole 1-3 cm, villous; leaf blade ovate, 3-6.5 × 1.6-3 cm, sparsely villous on both surfaces, base broadly obtuse to truncate and often oblique, apex rounded to obtuse then mucronate; secondary veins 10-12 pairs; stipules persistent, villous, 2-5-lobed, lobes linear, 5-10 mm. Inflorescences cymose, several flowered, villosulous; peduncle 2.5-6 cm; branched portion ca. 1.5 cm; axes mixed dichasial and scorpioid; bracts linear, 1.2-2 mm; pedicels to 5 mm. Flowers distylous, sessile to pedicellate. Calyx puberulent; hypanthium portion obconic to ellipsoid, ca. 1 mm; lobes narrowly triangular, ca. 1 mm. Corolla white, funnelform, puberulent outside; tube ca. 7.5 mm, inside with villous ring at middle and sparsely pubescent above; lobes ca. 1.5 mm. Immature capsules apparently subglobose. Fl. Aug.
  "Reference": "This species was not classified to subgenus in the protologue because the mature fruit were unknown, and predicting the states of unknown characters is problematic in many Rubiaceae (e.g., Razafimandimbison &amp; Taylor, Novon 10: 71-73. 2000).This species was not classified to subgenus in the protologue because the mature fruit were unknown, and predicting the states of unknown characters is problematic in many Rubiaceae (e.g., Razafimandimbison &amp; Taylor, Novon 10: 71-73. 2000).
  "Statistics": "● Shady and wet places in forests on slopes of limestone hills; ca. 400 m. Guangxi (Nonggang).
