香港绶草",
2.**Spiranthes hongkongensis** S. Y. Hu & Barretto Chung Chi J. 13(2): 2. 1976.",

## Description
Plants 11-44 cm tall. Roots 1.5-3.5 mm in diam. Leaves 2-6, erect and spreading, linear to oblanceolate, 4-12 × 0.5-0.9 cm, apex acute. Inflorescence erect, 10-42 cm, becoming densely glandular pubescent distally; rachis 3.5-13 cm, with many spirally arranged flowers; floral bracts lanceolate, sparsely glandular pubescent, apex acuminate. Flowers creamy white; ovary green, ca. 4 mm, glandular pubescent. Dorsal sepal forming a hood with petals, oblong, cymbiform, ca. 4 × 1.5 mm, outer surface glandular pubescent, apex obtuse; lateral sepals oblong-lanceolate, slightly oblique, ca. 4 × 1.5 mm, outer surface glandular pubescent, apex obtuse. Petals sometimes tinged pale pink, oblong, slightly oblique, ca. as long as dorsal sepal, thinly textured, apex obtuse; lip broadly oblong, 4-5 × ca. 2.5 mm, basal portion thickened and with 2 transparent, spherical glands, lateral margins erect and crisped, apex truncate-obtuse and recurved; disk papillate. Column erect, ca. 1 mm; anther ovoid; pollinia ca. 1 mm; rostellum triangular-lanceolate; stigma slightly raised, shield-shaped, distinctly 3-lobed. Fl. Mar-Apr. 2*n* = 60*.
  "Reference": "Since it was first described, this species has largely been ignored by subsequent authors who have referred it to synonymy of *Spiranthes sinensis*. However, Hu and Barretto (Chung Chi J. 13(2): 4-6. 1976) identified the often densely glandular pubescent rachis, glandular pubescent floral bracts and sepals, and the broad, distinctly 3-lobed stigma as clear morphological characters that distinguish it from *S. sinensis*. More recently, Sun (Amer. J. Bot. 83: 252-260. 1996) demonstrated that *S. hongkongensis* is an allopolyploid probably derived from natural hybridization between *S. sinensis* and *S. spiralis* (Linnaeus) Chevallier. Though *S. hongkongensis* has only been confirmed from Hong Kong to date, it is likely to be more widespread, particularly where the two parental species are sympatric; re-examination of herbarium material may result in the revoking of its endemic status, and synonymy may have to be re-assigned.Since it was first described, this species has largely been ignored by subsequent authors who have referred it to synonymy of *Spiranthes sinensis*. However, Hu and Barretto (Chung Chi J. 13(2): 4-6. 1976) identified the often densely glandular pubescent rachis, glandular pubescent floral bracts and sepals, and the broad, distinctly 3-lobed stigma as clear morphological characters that distinguish it from *S. sinensis*. More recently, Sun (Amer. J. Bot. 83: 252-260. 1996) demonstrated that *S. hongkongensis* is an allopolyploid probably derived from natural hybridization between *S. sinensis* and *S. spiralis* (Linnaeus) Chevallier. Though *S. hongkongensis* has only been confirmed from Hong Kong to date, it is likely to be more widespread, particularly where the two parental species are sympatric; re-examination of herbarium material may result in the revoking of its endemic status, and synonymy may have to be re-assigned.
  "Statistics": "&amp;#9679; Open moist to dry hillsides, grasslands, meadows; 800-900 m. Hong Kong.
