薄萼马蓝",
65.**Strobilanthes latisepala** Hemsley J. Linn. Soc., Bot. 26: 241. 1890.",

## Description
Herbs to 50 cm tall, perennial, isophyllous. Stems 4-angled, sulcate, glabrous. Petiole 1-2.5 cm, glabrous; leaf blade lanceolate to ovate-lanceolate, 2-6 × 1-2.5 cm, abaxially glabrous and paler, adaxially with a few scattered trichomes and abundant cystoliths, secondary veins 4-6 on each side of midvein, base cuneate and decurrent onto petiole, margin crenulate, apex acuminate. Inflorescences axillary, subcapitate, 1-2 cm, 2-4-flowered; peduncle 0-2 cm; bracts leaflike, ovate, 6-9 × 3-5 mm, persistent, glabrous, margin subentire, apex acute; bracteoles linear, 5-6 × ca. 2 mm, glabrous. Calyx 8-10 mm, 5-lobed almost to base; lobes ovate-elliptic, 6-10 × 3-5 mm, unequal with one larger than others, outside sparsely pilose, apex obtuse. Corolla pale blue, ca. 3.2 cm, slightly curved, outside glabrous, inside glabrous except for trichomes retaining style; tube basally cylindric and ca. 2 mm wide for ca. 8 mm then gradually widened to ca. 1 cm at mouth; lobes ovate, ca. 4 × 3 mm. Stamens 4; filaments glabrous, shorter pair ca. 4 mm, longer pair ca. 8 mm; anther thecae oblong, ca. 2 × 1.2 mm, erect; pollen type 3. Ovary glabrous; style ca. 2.7 cm, glabrous. Capsule not seen.
  "Reference": "*Strobilanthes latisepala* is only known from the type and is possibly conspecific with the very variable *S. atropurpurea*, from which it can be distinguished by its distinctive broad sepals.*Strobilanthes latisepala* is only known from the type and is possibly conspecific with the very variable *S. atropurpurea*, from which it can be distinguished by its distinctive broad sepals.
  "Statistics": "● Forests. Hubei (Xingshan).
