滇西马蓝",
49.**Strobilanthes ovata** Y. F. Deng & J. R. I. Wood Novon. 20: 143. 2010.",

## Description
Herbs 30-40 cm tall, perennial. Stems with a narrow wing to 0.8 mm wide on each side, densely covered with cystoliths, glabrous. Leaves basally petiolate and apically becoming sessile; petiole of basal leaves 3-5 mm, glabrous; leaf blade ovate-elliptic, 2-5 × 1-2.3 cm, both surfaces glabrous and with prominent cystoliths, abaxially paler and with prominent veins covered by cystoliths, secondary veins 2-4 on each side of midvein, base decurrent onto petiole, margin crenate to crenate-serrate, apex acuminate. Inflorescences terminal on main stem or on branches arising from apicalmost leaf axils, spikes, 1-7 cm; rachis narrowly winged, pilose with multicellular trichomes and some gland-tipped trichomes; bracts ovate, oblong-ovate, or rounded, 3-7 × 1-5 mm, pubescent; bracteoles oblanceolate, ca. 5 × 1 mm, subglabrous to pilose with multicellular trichomes and some gland-tipped trichomes, apex rounded. Calyx subglabrous or gland-tipped pilose on margin, slightly 2-lipped; upper lip 8-10 mm, 3-lobed to 3 mm from base, lobes triangular and 5-7 mm; lower lip 2-lobed almost to base, lobes linear-oblanceolate to subspatulate, 9-10 mm, and apex obtuse. Corolla light blue, 3-3.5 cm, gently curved, subventricose, outside glabrous, inside glabrous except for trichomes retaining style; tube basally cylindric and ca. 2 mm wide for ca. 1 cm and then gradually widened to ca. 1.3 cm at mouth; lobes ovate, ca. 4 × 4 mm, subequal. Stamens 4, included; shorter filament pair ca. 2 mm, glabrous; longer filament pair ca. 5 mm, basally pilose; anther thecae oblong, ca. 2 × 1 mm; pollen type 3. Ovary oblong, ca. 2 mm, comose at tip; style ca. 2.2 cm, sparsely pilose. Capsule narrowly oblong-ellipsoid, ca. 12 × 2 mm, glabrous except for gland-tipped pubescent tip, 4-seeded. Seeds ovate to suborbicular in outline, ca. 3 × 2 mm, pilose. Fl. Oct-Feb, fr. Dec-Mar.
  "Statistics": "● Moist forests; 1600-2200 m. Yunnan.
