小叶马蓝",
127.**Strobilanthes parvifolia** J. R. I. Wood Kew Bull. 64: 25. 2009.",

## Description
Herbs, perennial, anisophyllous. Stems somewhat sulcate with distinct small parallel ridges, glabrous, basally geniculate. Petiole 0-4 mm, glabrous; leaf blade lanceolate, ovate, or ovate-elliptic, 1-3.5 × 1-1.8 cm, smaller of pair ca. 1/3 size of larger one, both surfaces glabrous and with somewhat obscure cystoliths or rarely abaxially with a few gland-tipped trichomes on veins, base broadly to narrowly cuneate and somewhat decurrent onto petiole, margin undulate to slightly crenate, apex acute. Inflorescences leaflike with long few-flowered branches; branches strict, densely covered with short stalked glands, sparingly 3-forked with subsessile flowers in opposite pairs (rarely solitary) in axils of leaflike bracts at tips of ultimate branches; basal sterile bracts variable in size and shape, sessile or nearly so, oblong-lanceolate to sometimes ovate, elliptic, or oblong, 0.5-3.5 × 0.3-1.5 cm, often very unequal at each pair, abaxially densely stalked gland-tipped pubescent toward base, base attenuate, margin undulate and sparsely covered with stalked glands, apex acute; floral bracts oblong, ca. 5 × 1 mm, caducous, gland-tipped pilose; bracteoles oblong, ca. 2 × 1 mm. Calyx ca. 1.1 cm at anthesis, accrescent to ca. 2 cm in fruit, 5-lobed almost to base; lobes narrowly oblong-lanceolate, 1-1.5 mm wide, subequal, densely covered with relatively short gland-tipped trichomes, apex obtuse. Corolla white flushed violet, 2.5-3 cm, outside glabrous, inside pubescent; tube basally cylindric and ca. 3 mm wide for ca. 1 cm then gradually widened to ca. 1.2 cm and bent to ca. 90° and then and widened to 1.2-1.5 cm at mouth; lobes broadly ovate, ca. 6 × 6 mm, apex obtuse. Stamens 4, included; filaments glabrous, shorter pair 1.5-2 mm, longer pair 5-6 mm; anther thecae oblong, ca. 2 × 0.5 mm; pollen type 16. Ovary glabrous; style ca. 1.5 cm, glabrous. Capsule narrowly clavate, ca. 2.2 cm, glabrous, 4-seeded. Mature seeds not seen. Fl. Sep, fr. Sep-Oct.
  "Statistics": "● Forest margins on hills; ca. 1600 m. Xizang (Mêdog).
