绿花大苞兰",
7.**Sunipia annamensis** (Ridley) P. F. Hunt Kew Bull. 26: 183. 1971.",

## Description
Rhizome creeping, ca. 2 mm in diam. Pseudobulbs ca. 1.5 cm apart on rhizome, ovoid, 1.7-2.5 cm, ca. 13 mm in diam., with 1 leaf at apex. Petiole ca. 15 mm; leaf blade erect, oblong, 8.5-11 × 2-2.5 cm, thickly leathery, base contracted into petiole, apex obtuse and retuse. Scape erect, 15-35 cm; raceme erect, 4-6-flowered; peduncle 12-30 cm, 1.5-2 mm in diam., with 6 sheaths 1.5-2 cm; floral bracts ovate to triangular, 10-12 mm, membranous, apex acuminate. Pedicel and ovary 10-13 mm. Dorsal sepal ovate, ca. 10 × 6-7 mm, 7-veined, apex rounded to obtuse; lateral sepals ovate, 11-14 × ca. 5 mm, lower edges free or ± connate (see note below) to each other in basal half, apex acute. Petals ovate-triangular, 5.5-6 × 5.5-6 mm, 3-veined, margins erose-denticulate, apex obtuse; lip ± cordate to rhombiform, 7-9 × 7-10 mm, slightly narrowed and thickened in apical half, apex obtuse. Column ca. 2 mm, stout, base with a foot ca. 1 mm; each pair of pollinia with a stipe and a viscidium. Fl. Oct.
  "Reference": "X. H. Jin et al. (Acta Bot. Yunnan. 29: 394. 2007) reported *Sunipia annamensis* from the locality given above. Their description may well refer to this species, although they described the lateral sepals as connate. We have not seen the specimen (*X. H. Jin 8545*, PE). The Chinese record needs confirmation.X. H. Jin et al. (Acta Bot. Yunnan. 29: 394. 2007) reported *Sunipia annamensis* from the locality given above. Their description may well refer to this species, although they described the lateral sepals as connate. We have not seen the specimen (*X. H. Jin 8545*, PE). The Chinese record needs confirmation.
  "Statistics": "Tree trunks in forests; ca. 2400 m. S Yunnan (Lüchun) [Thailand, Vietnam].
  "Synonym": "*Ione annamensis* Ridley, J. Nat. Hist. Soc. Siam 4: 115. 1921.
