紫椿",
3.**Toona sureni** (Blume) Merrill",

> This species also yields excellent timber. Its bark is used as a powerful astringent and a purgative throughout its range. In Indo-China it is considered to be a tonic, an antiperiodic, and an antirheumatic, while in Indonesia it is used as an astringent and a tonic for treating diarrhea, dysentery, and other intestinal infections. The leaf extracts apparently have an antibiotic activity against *Staphylococcus*, with leaf tip con-coctions being applied to swellings. Because of the difficulty of separating this species from *Toona ciliata* in the herbarium, it is probable that *T. sureni* is more widespread in China than the above localities indicate.

## Description
Trees, medium sized to 40 m tall; trunk to 25 m tall, to 3 m d.b.h., with or without buttresses (to 2 m); crown fairly wide, spreading, occasionally dense. Bark whitish, grayish brown, gray, or light brown, usually vertically fissured and flaking; inner bark pinkish white, pinkish brown, reddish brown, or orange, fibrous; sap-wood white, pink, or pale red, sweetly aromatic when cut. Twigs pilose and often densely and prominently lenticellate with conspicuous verrucose lenticels. Leaves 29-84 cm; petiole 7-12 cm, pilose to glabrescent, often lenticellate; rachis moderately pilose to glabrescent, occasionally velutinous; leaflets usually 6-9(-12) pairs; petiolules (2-)4-12 mm, pilose/villous to glabrescent; leaflet blades lanceolate to ovate-lanceolate, 7-14(-19.5) × 3.1-6(-7) cm, often dark grayish brown, moderately pilose to glabrescent, usually with short trichomes and club-glands apically on midveins, veins basally pilose to villous/velutinous, base symmetrical to asymmetrical, margin entire, apex acuminate to occasionally acute. Inflorescences to 40 cm, pendent; rachis pilose to villous with medium to long spreading trichomes, occasionally glabrescent. Flowers 4-5 mm, sweetly aromatic. Pedicel (0.3-)0.7-1.3 mm, pilose to villous. Calyx 1-1.5 mm, outside pilose to glabrescent, lobes imbricate; sepals usually shallowly triangular especially in bud, 0.6-1 × 0.8-1.5 mm, outside villous to glabrescent, margins ciliate, apex usually acute. Petals white, creamy white, or pale pink, 3.5-5 × 1.6-3.2 mm, outside villous to glabrescent but in bud usually with conspicuous ciliate bands of long appressed trichomes on margins. Androgynophore 2.5-4.7 mm; filaments 1.2-2.5 mm (male flowers), 1-1.3 mm (female flowers), pilose to villous with scattered to dense long trichomes; anthers of male flowers 0.7-1.3 × 0.3-0.8 mm, apex usually apiculate; antherodes of female flowers sagittate, 0.5-0.9 × 0.2-0.6 mm. Disk orange to red, 1.2-2.5 mm in diam., densely pilose. Ovary 1.6-2.8 mm in diam., moderately to densely pilose, with to 6 ovules per locule; style 1.2-3 × 0.2-0.5 mm (male), 0.5-1 × ca. 0.3 mm (female), pilose with scattered usually appressed trichomes especially on basal half; stylehead 0.7-1.3 mm in diam. Capsule 1.4-2(-2.4) cm; columella 1.4-2(-2.4) × 0.5-0.8(-1) cm, concave with apical scarring; valves dark brown to blackish brown, rough, verrucose, with conspicuous and often ovoid 0.3-2 × 0.4-1.3 mm rusty lenticels. Seeds 1.1-2(-2.2) cm × (3-)4-4.8 mm, winged at both ends, wings unequal with broadly obtuse apices; seed body 5-8 × 1.5-2 mm. Fl. Apr, fr. Apr-May.

> Open hillsides, occasional in ravines, forests, and woods; 700-1600 m. Guizhou, Hainan, Sichuan, Yunnan [Bhutan, India, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, Papua New Guinea, Thailand].
  "Synonym": "*Swietenia sureni* Blume, Catalogus, 72. 1823; *Cedrela febrifuga* Blume; *C. febrifuga* var. *pealii* C. Candolle; *C. febrifuga* var. *verrucosa* C. Candolle, p.p. (as to *Forbes 118* and *Forbes s.n.* from Sumatra); *C. microcarpa* C. Candolle var. *grandifoliola* C. Candolle; *C. sureni* (Blume) Burkill; *C. toona* Roxburgh ex Rottler var. *henryi* C. Candolle; *C. toona* var. *pilistila* C. Candolle; *C. toona* var. *warburgii* C. Candolle; *Surenus febrifuga* (Blume) Kuntze; *Toona ciliata* M. Roemer var. *candollei* Bahadur; *T. ciliata* var. *grandifoliola* (C. Candolle) Bahadur; *T. ciliata* var. *henryi* (C. Candolle) Harms; *T. febrifuga* (Blume) M. Roemer.
**3c. 思茅红椿（云南植物志）（变种）**

var. henryi (C. DC.) C. Y. Wu, Fl. Yunnan. 1: 209. 1977; 云南种子植物名录, 上册833. 1984.——Cedrela toona Roxb. ex Rottl. var. henryi C. DC. in Rec. Bot. Surv. India 3: 369. 1908.

本变种与原变种之主要区别在于：小叶长12厘米，宽4.5厘米，叶面沿中脉被微柔毛，背面无毛或仅脉腋有毛，基部两侧渐狭，但上侧稍长且较阔，小叶柄长12毫米；圆锥花序远短于叶，接近基部处具疏散分枝；花瓣椭圆形，两端圆形，长4.5毫米，宽2.5毫米；花丝被疏柔毛。

产云南；生于海拔1 500米的山地。模式标本（A. Henry，未举号）采自云南思茅未见标本。
