丁茜属",
93.**Trailliaedoxa** W. W. Smith & Forrest Notes Roy. Bot. Gard. Edinburgh. 10: 74. 1917.",

> ● One species: China.

## Description
Shrubs, low, erect, unarmed or with spinescent branches; branches at base with a pair of reduced, usually deciduous leaves and a persistent stipule. Raphides apparently absent. Leaves opposite, sometimes fasciculate on unexpanded axillary stems and appearing whorled, subsessile, without domatia; stipules deciduous, interpetiolar or fused to petiole bases, 2-lobed, lobes gland-tipped. Inflorescences terminal, pseudoaxillary, or terminal on paired lateral short shoots and appearing axillary, congested-cymose to umbelliform or fasciculate, few to many flowered, often nodding, sessile to pedunculate; bracts reduced or occasionally leaflike. Flowers pedicellate, bisexual, apparently monomorphic. Calyx limb 5-lobed essentially to base. Corolla white, pink, or pale yellow, salverform to funnelform, glabrous inside; lobes 5, convolute in bud. Stamens 5, inserted in corolla throat, exserted; filaments short; anthers dorsifixed near base. Ovary 2-celled, ovules 1 in each cell, pendulous from apex; style curved; stigma clavate to ellipsoid and 2-lobed for a third to half its length, exserted. Fruit schizocarpous, dry, oblanceoloid, with calyx limb persistent; mericarps 2, indehiscent, each with 1 seed, ellipsoid, crustaceous; seeds medium-sized, ellipsoid; testa leathery; endosperm absent; embryo linear-oblanceolate.
  "Reference": "The presence or absence of raphides has not been specifically noted anywhere we have seen; their absence is presumed here based on observations of specimens and the classification by Robbrecht (Opera Bot. Belg. 1: 1-271. 1988) of this genus in Antirrhoideae. W. C. Ko (in FRPS 71(2): 1. 1999) described the anthers as partially exserted, but these are fully exserted at anthesis on the specimens studied. On the few specimens studied (*T. T. Yü 1348*, *C. Schneider 2194*, *Forrest 10713*, all A; *Boufford et al. 35041*, MO), the flowers appear to be protandrous, with the stamens apparently dehiscing while the stigmas are enclosed in the corolla; on these plants subsequently the style elongates, the stigma is exserted by several millimeters, and then the two lobes separate and presumably become receptive.The presence or absence of raphides has not been specifically noted anywhere we have seen; their absence is presumed here based on observations of specimens and the classification by Robbrecht (Opera Bot. Belg. 1: 1-271. 1988) of this genus in Antirrhoideae. W. C. Ko (in FRPS 71(2): 1. 1999) described the anthers as partially exserted, but these are fully exserted at anthesis on the specimens studied. On the few specimens studied (*T. T. Yü 1348*, *C. Schneider 2194*, *Forrest 10713*, all A; *Boufford et al. 35041*, MO), the flowers appear to be protandrous, with the stamens apparently dehiscing while the stigmas are enclosed in the corolla; on these plants subsequently the style elongates, the stigma is exserted by several millimeters, and then the two lobes separate and presumably become receptive.
**59．丁茜属 Trailliaedoxa W. W. Smith et Forrest**

W. W. Smith et Forrest in Not. Roy. Bot. Gard. Edinb. 10: 75. 1917.

直立亚灌木，多分枝。叶对生，具短柄；托叶生于叶柄间，2裂，锥形。花序顶生或腋生，为花多、圆球形的聚伞花序；萼管圆柱形，萼檐5裂，裂片线状披针形，宿存；花冠漏斗形，喉部无毛，上部5裂，裂片长圆状披针形，芽时旋转排列；雄蕊5，生于花冠喉部，花丝极短，花药近基部背着，长圆形，微突出；花盘环形；子房2室，花柱丝形，弯曲，柱头棒形，2裂；胚珠每室1颗，由顶端下垂。果圆柱形，有2槽；种子每室单颗，种皮革质，无胚乳，胚线状倒披针形。

我国特有属，1种革质，无胚乳，胚线状倒披针形。
