圆锥组",
4.**Viburnum sect. Solenotinus** Candolle Prodr. 4: 328. 1830.",

> About 20 species: temperate and subtropical Asia; 18 species (13 endemic) in China.

## Description
Winter buds with 2 or 3 pairs of separate scales. Inflorescence paniculate, usually pyramidal, without large sterile radiant flowers, pedicellate or subsessile. Corolla rotate, tubular-campanulate, funnelform-hypocrateriform, or hypocrateriform. Fruit maturing red or purple-reddish and later nigrescent; pyrenes with 1 deep ventral groove; albumen solid.
  "Reference": "This section was divided into four subsections by H. Hara (Ginkgoana 5: 190-204. 1983): *Viburnum* subsect. *Loniceroides* (Oersted) H. Hara for *V. farreri* and *V. grandiflorum*, *V.* subsect. *Microtinus* (Oersted) H. Hara for *V. odoratissimum* and ca. six other species, *V.* subsect. *Sieboldiana* (Nakai) H. Hara for *V. sieboldii* and probably the Chinese *V. yunnanense* and *V. shweliense*, and *V.* subsect. *Solenotinus* for ca. ten species. Recent phylogenetic work shows that this section is clearly monophyletic (excluding the Bornean *V. clemensiae*) and sister to *V.* sect. *Tomentosa*. Current sampling does not allow a more precise discussion regarding the monophyly of subsections.This section was divided into four subsections by H. Hara (Ginkgoana 5: 190-204. 1983): *Viburnum* subsect. *Loniceroides* (Oersted) H. Hara for *V. farreri* and *V. grandiflorum*, *V.* subsect. *Microtinus* (Oersted) H. Hara for *V. odoratissimum* and ca. six other species, *V.* subsect. *Sieboldiana* (Nakai) H. Hara for *V. sieboldii* and probably the Chinese *V. yunnanense* and *V. shweliense*, and *V.* subsect. *Solenotinus* for ca. ten species. Recent phylogenetic work shows that this section is clearly monophyletic (excluding the Bornean *V. clemensiae*) and sister to *V.* sect. *Tomentosa*. Current sampling does not allow a more precise discussion regarding the monophyly of subsections.
  "Synonym": "*Microtinus* Oersted; *Solenotinus* (Candolle) Spach; *Thyrsosma* Rafinesque.
