齿叶组",
7.**Viburnum sect. Odontotinus** Rehder in Sargent Trees & Shrubs. 2: 113. 1908.",

> About 30 species: temperate Asia and North America, only one species in the European Caucasus; 22 species (15 endemic) in China.

## Description
Winter buds with 2 or 3 pairs of separate scales. Inflorescence a compound umbel-like cyme, usually pedicellate, without large sterile radiant flowers. Corolla rotate or campanulate-rotate. Fruit maturing red, rarely maturing black; pyrenes with 1 or 2 deep or shallow dorsal grooves, and 1-3 ventral grooves, endocarp solid.
  "Reference": "H. Hara (Ginkgoana 5: 229-267. 1983) recognized three subsections: *Viburnum* subsect. *Odontotinus* for Asiatic species with entire leaves, *V.* subsect. *Dentata* (Maximowicz) H. Hara for North American species, and *V.* subsect. *Lobata* (Oersted) H. Hara for species with 3-5-lobed leaf blades. Recent phylogenetic work shows that this section is polyphyletic, with two distinct clades. The first one consists of New World species together with South American species from *V.* sect. *Oreinotinus* (Oersted) Bentham &amp; J. D. Hooker and a second clade for Old World species. This Old World clade can be further split into species with 3-5-lobed leaf blades (\"Lobata\" clade) and the remaining species (\"Succodontotinus\" clade). Old World *V.* sect. *Odontotinus* are sister to *V. cylindricum* (i.e., *V.* sect. *Megalotinus*).H. Hara (Ginkgoana 5: 229-267. 1983) recognized three subsections: *Viburnum* subsect. *Odontotinus* for Asiatic species with entire leaves, *V.* subsect. *Dentata* (Maximowicz) H. Hara for North American species, and *V.* subsect. *Lobata* (Oersted) H. Hara for species with 3-5-lobed leaf blades. Recent phylogenetic work shows that this section is polyphyletic, with two distinct clades. The first one consists of New World species together with South American species from *V.* sect. *Oreinotinus* (Oersted) Bentham &amp; J. D. Hooker and a second clade for Old World species. This Old World clade can be further split into species with 3-5-lobed leaf blades (\"Lobata\" clade) and the remaining species (\"Succodontotinus\" clade). Old World *V.* sect. *Odontotinus* are sister to *V. cylindricum* (i.e., *V.* sect. *Megalotinus*).
