疏毛野豌豆",
1.**Vicia subvillosa** (Ledebour) Boissier Fl. Orient. 2: 580. 1872.",

## Description
Herbs perennial, 15-30 cm tall, sparsely to densely vil-lous. Leaves usually imparipinnate, 1.5-4 cm; stipules digitate-hastate, divided nearly to middle into 5-7 narrowly triangular, unequal teeth; leaflets 2-4-paired and usually also 1 terminal, linear, 10-20 × 1-2 mm, apex acute, mucronate; tendril absent. Raceme 4-8 cm, longer than leaf, 2-4-flowered. Calyx tube ca. 5 mm; teeth ca. 2 mm. Corolla purple, with dark patch on abax-ial surface of standard and pale yellow wings, 1.8-2 cm; stan-dard longer than wings and keel. Legume light brown, narrowly oblanceolate, gradually narrowed toward base, abruptly nar-rowed at apex, 25-40 × 6-10 mm, glabrous; persistent style curved, 5-7 mm. Seeds 2-4. Fl. Apr-May, fr. May-Jun.
  "Reference": "*Vicia subvillosa* is included here on the basis of two specimens collected during the 19th century in what is now Xinjiang: \"Songaria chinensis, ad lacum Saisang-Nor,\" 1838, *C. A Meyer 18095* (BM!) and \"Songaria chin. ad lacum Saisang-Nor\" [without date or collector] (K!). Confirmation of its continued presence in China is needed. The species was also recorded from Xinjiang by Chang Y. Yang (Claves Pl. Xin-jiang. 3: 193. 1985).*Vicia subvillosa* is included here on the basis of two specimens collected during the 19th century in what is now Xinjiang: \"Songaria chinensis, ad lacum Saisang-Nor,\" 1838, *C. A Meyer 18095* (BM!) and \"Songaria chin. ad lacum Saisang-Nor\" [without date or collector] (K!). Confirmation of its continued presence in China is needed. The species was also recorded from Xinjiang by Chang Y. Yang (Claves Pl. Xin-jiang. 3: 193. 1985).
  "Statistics": "Steppes or foothills. W Xinjiang [Afghanistan, Kazakhstan, Kyr-gyzstan, Mongolia, Russia (Altai), Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbeki-stan; SW Asia (Iran)].
  "Synonym": "*Orobus subvillosus* Ledebour, Fl. Altaic. 3: 359. 1831; *Lathyrus subvillosus* (Ledebour) Aitchison &amp; Hemsley; *O. tri-florus* Beck ex Stapf; *Vicia subvillosa* var. *stenophylla* M. Popov.
