鸡公山玉兰",
13.**Yulania jigongshanensis** (T. B. Chao et al.) D. L. Fu J. Wuhan Bot. Res. 19: 198. 2001.",

## Description
Trees. Twigs purplish brown, lustrous, glabrous, rarely pubescent; young twigs pale yellowish green, terete, densely pubescent. Petiole 1-3 cm, furrowed adaxially; leaf blade broadly elliptic, broadly ovate, orbicular, suborbicular, obovate, or obtriangular, 16.5-19.5 × 5-17.5 cm, thinly leathery to leathery, abaxially pale yellowish green and densely curved pubescent, adaxially dark green, lustrous, and densely pubescent along veins, secondary veins 5-9 on each side of midvein and prominent on both surfaces, base subrounded to broadly cuneate, apex obtuse and with a long mucro to 2-lobed. Brachyblasts densely pubescent. Flower buds ovoid, small, densely grayish white to pale yellowish brown villous. Flowers appearing before leaves. Tepals 9; outer 3 tepals pale yellowish green, sepal-like, triangular or lanceolate, 1-5(-15) mm, membranous; inner 6 tepals pale yellowish white but outside pale purplish in middle at base, petal-like, spatulate-elliptic, 5-9 × 3-5 cm, apex obtuse to sometimes emarginate. Stamens 65-71; filaments purple; anthers 0.8-1.3 cm, dehiscing latrorsely. Carpels many, densely pubescent. Fruit terete, 15-20 × 3-5 cm. Fl. Apr, fr. Aug.
  "Reference": "One of the largest plantations of *Yulania* for growing medicinal *xinyi* is found at Jigong Shan Forest Station in Xinying, Henan. This plant may be one of the many hybrids that originate in plantations with different *Yulania* species, probably with *Yulania biondii* as one of the parents.One of the largest plantations of *Yulania* for growing medicinal *xinyi* is found at Jigong Shan Forest Station in Xinying, Henan. This plant may be one of the many hybrids that originate in plantations with different *Yulania* species, probably with *Yulania biondii* as one of the parents.
  "Statistics": "● Henan (Jigong Shan).
  "Synonym": "*Magnolia jigongshanensis* T. B. Chao et al., J. Henan Univ., Nat. Sci. 26: 62. 2000.
