醉鱼草状六道木",
1.**Zabelia triflora** (R. Brown) Makino Makinoa. 9: 175. 1948.",

## Description
Shrubs, deciduous, 1-2 m tall. Young branches with retrorse stiff hairs, becoming glabrous. Petiole very short, to 2 mm, hispid. Leaf blade ovate to lanceolate, 15-70 × 5-20 mm, both surfaces glabrous but long hispid on margin and veins abaxially, base cuneate, margin entire to occasionally serrate or lobed, apex acute. Inflorescence a congested terminal thyrse of cymes (cymes 1-3-flowered); pedicels short or nearly absent. Bracts leaflike, lanceolate to obovate; bracteoles linear to subulate, ca. 4 mm, hispid. Calyx of 5 linear sepals, 4-10 × ca. 1 mm, ciliate with stiff hairs. Corolla white, sometimes tinged red, hypocrateriform, 10-20 mm, nearly twice as long as sepals; lobes 5, spreading, suborbicular; tube densely villous inside, with sparsely adpressed hairs outside. Stamens 4, didynamous, included; filaments short, hispid; anthers oblong. Ovary narrowly ovoid, hirsute; styles filiform, exceeding stamens; stigmas capitate. Achene terete, striate, crowned with 5 slightly enlarged and long ciliate persistent sepals. Fl. May, fr. Jun-Aug.
  "Reference": "The Chinese specimens were previously named as *Abelia buddleioides* by W. W. Smith (Notes Roy. Bot. Gard. Edinburgh 9: 75. 1915-1916). The type specimen *Forrest 12636* from Yunnan is similar to the type of *A. triflora* var. *parvifolia* (Clarke) Hisauchi &amp; H. Hara from Pakistan. Nevertheless, the group shows much variation in the size and shape of the leaves and sepals.The Chinese specimens were previously named as *Abelia buddleioides* by W. W. Smith (Notes Roy. Bot. Gard. Edinburgh 9: 75. 1915-1916). The type specimen *Forrest 12636* from Yunnan is similar to the type of *A. triflora* var. *parvifolia* (Clarke) Hisauchi &amp; H. Hara from Pakistan. Nevertheless, the group shows much variation in the size and shape of the leaves and sepals.
  "Statistics": "Forests, scrub, grasslands; 1800-3500 m. SW Sichuan, SE Xizang, NW Yunnan [Afghanistan, NW India, Nepal, Pakistan].
  "Synonym": "*Abelia triflora* R. Brown in Wallich, Pl. Asiat. Rar. 1: 14. 1829; *A. angustifolia* Bureau ex Franchet; *A. buddleioides* W. W. Smith; *A. buddleioides* var. *divergens* W. W. Smith; *A. buddleioides* var. *intercedens* Handel-Mazzetti; *A. buddleioides* var. *stenantha* Handel-Mazzetti; *Zabelia buddleioides* (W. W. Smith) Hisauchi &amp; H. Hara; *Z. buddleioides* var. *divergens* (W. W. Smith) Golubkova; *Z. buddleioides* var. *stenantha* (Handel-Mazzetti) Hisauchi &amp; H. Hara; *Z. stenantha* (Handel-Mazzetti) Golubkova.
